               ProtogaLattice: Lattice-based Algebraic Folding

                        David Balbás1 , Anca Nitulescu2 , and Maxime Plançon3
                                         1
                                             ETH Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland
                                                2
                                                  Input Output, France
                                              3
                                                Input Output, Switzerland



      Abstract. Folding schemes are gaining traction recently as they are suited to prove streaming com-
      putations with low memory footprint. In particular, there has been a growing interest in post-quantum
      folding schemes for more expressive relations, and with improved proof sizes. While the landscape is
      vast, every lattice-based construction, such as Latticefold+, (Super)Neo, and Cyclo, heavily rely on the
      sumcheck protocol. Sumcheck gives efficient proving times, but the verifier circuits become very large,
      partially because of the many random oracle invocations required. When folding sequential computa-
      tions, this significantly inflates the recursive overhead, as the prover must run the verification at every
      iteration.
           We present ProtogaLattice, a new lattice-based folding scheme for general high-degree polynomial
      relations that drastically reduces the size of the verifier’s circuits. Our folding backbone deviates from
      the sumcheck approach and uses algebraic techniques. Our contribution is twofold:
      i) a folding scheme that combines multiple instances of polynomial relations into accumulators for a
      bounded number of iterations, and
      ii) a bootstrapping protocol to reduce the norm of the witnesses underlying these accumulators, which
      can be used in complement to our bounded-depth folding scheme to unlock unlimited depth.
           A full iteration of ProtogaLattice for witnesses of length 230 gives a 4ˆ shorter proof size than the
      state-of-the-art, with only 8.13 KB. Additionally, ProtogaLattice requires less random oracle evaluations
      and achieves a smaller verifier circuit than its sumcheck counterparts.
           Our techniques open new directions towards building efficient lattice-based proofs for expressive
      relations and that present small recursion overheads, challenging the established sumcheck-based ap-
      proaches.


1   Introduction

Folding Schemes, first introduced by Nova [KST22], allow one to accumulate multiple instances of
an NP relation into a single small instance while preserving satisfiability. As a better alternative
to classical recursive proof systems, such techniques unlock efficient instantiations of incrementally
verifiable computation (IVC) [Val08] or proof carrying data (PCD) [CT10].
    Works that build recursive proof schemes [BCMS20,BCL` 21] show how to amortize the recursive
costs by aggregating some parts of the proof, while the recursive statement only checks that the
aggregation was done correctly. These ideas were further developed into more efficient ways to
accumulate statements and defer hard computations, which led to the emergence of multiple folding
schemes.
    Recently, numerous works have extended the folding paradigm, improving efficiency, generality,
and modularity.
    In a nutshell, folding schemes allow one to aggregate multiple instances of a computational
relation into a single instance that captures their joint validity via the reduction of knowledge
abstraction [KP23]. To illustrate reductions of knowledge, let Ξ and Ξ ˚ be two instance–witness
relations. We denote instances by t and their corresponding witnesses by w. A reduction of knowl-
edge from Ξ to Ξ ˚ is an interactive protocol Π between a prover and a verifier with the following
structure: the verifier takes as input an instance t1 for Ξ, interacts with the prover, and outputs an
instance t2 for Ξ ˚ . The security property of reductions of knowledge ensures that if the prover can
subsequently produce a valid witness w2 (such that pt2 , w2 q P Ξ ˚ ), then there exists an efficient
extractor that recovers a valid witness w1 (such that pt1 , w1 q P Ξ).
    Then, a folding scheme for k witnesses is simply a reduction of knowledge tailored to accumu-
lations, which goes from a product relation Ξ ˚ ˆ Ξ k Ñ Ξ ˚ . Here, Ξ is the base relation and Ξ ˚ is
an accumulation relation whose instance compactly represent prior computation steps.
    To construct IVC, the prover can fold a sequence of computation steps into a single accumulator
instance whose size remains essentially fixed, which leads to memory-efficient proving. At the end
of the computation, it suffices to prove knowledge of a witness for the final Ξ ˚ instance.
    Folding schemes are characterized by their expressiveness, which is essentially the class of rela-
tions that they can fold. Given a witness w and an instance t, a general relation takes the form


                                 Ξ “ tpt, wq : f pwq “ 0 ^ t “ cmpwqu ,


where f is a polynomial map of total degree at most d, and cm is an additive homomorphic
commitment scheme. Depending on the form of f , a folding scheme may capture standard constraint
systems used in succinct arguments such as R1CS, Plonkish, CCS, or even arbitrary polynomial
constraints. Generally, supporting large d and arbitrary polynomial maps f is preferred as it enables
more efficient arithmetizations, improving the practicality.
    Without aiming to be exhaustive4 , we categorize folding schemes in two big families:
    Algebraic folding schemes define the folding step as a closed algebraic transformation on the rela-
tion itself, so each fold is implemented by evaluating and linearly combining polynomial constraints
on the relation witnesses directly. Then, the verifier combines the instances leveraging an additive
homomorphic commitment scheme. Examples include Nova [KST22] and FLIP-and-Prove [NPR26]
for quadratic relations, and Protostar [BC23] and Protogalaxy [EG23] for high-degree, arbitrary
polynomial relations.
     Sumcheck-based folding schemes such as Hypernova [KS24] or FLI [GM24] phrase the fold-
ing as a claim about a big polynomial (or about products of multilinear polynomials) and then
use the sumcheck protocol to reduce the claim to a small number of scalar checks, so the heavy
lifting is in the interactive polynomial reduction rather than in an algebraic gadget. This is also
the approach taken by all existing lattice-based folding schemes5 including Latticefold [BC25a],
Latticefold+ [BC25b], Neo/SuperNeo [NS26], and Cyclo [GLLO26] for high-degree customizable
constraint systems (CCS).
    None of the above approaches is strictly better than the other. On the one hand, algebraic
schemes give very structured accumulators, are more succinct, and, in general, have cheaper per-
step verification (partially because the round-efficiency, with few random oracle calls), resulting
in smaller recursive overheads for IVC. On the other hand, sumcheck-based schemes enjoy linear
proving time in k for multi-folding (k ą 1).

4
  In particular, for readability we are omitting families of folding schemes that do not rely on additively homomorphic
  commitments such as [BMNW25,BCFW25]
5
  Except for Lova [FKNP24], an algebraic folding scheme for the subset sum problem over the integers.


                                                          2
1.1     Lattice-based Folding

Due to their plausible post-quantum security and to the capacity of supporting smaller (64-bit)
fields natively, lattice-based folding schemes have seen lots of research activity in recent years.6
All existing lattice-based folding schemes for high-degree relations work over rings of the form
Rq “ Zq rXs{pΦq for a cyclotomic polynomial Φ “ X N ` 1 and follow the same high-level recipe:

1. Depart from a high degree-d relation that can be captured by products of multilinear polyno-
   mials, such as CCS [STW23]. Define witnesses wi for these relations with low norm, that is,
   ||wi || ď B for some bound B.
2. Commit to the wi ’s to be folded using Ajtai commitments [Ajt96], which are additively homo-
   morphic and binding for low-norm committed vectors. Besides, use a range proof to show that
   the committed wi ’s satisfy the norm bound ||wi || ď B.
3. Reduce, via the sumcheck protocol, the initial degree-d relation to a series of evaluation claims
   about multilinear (i.e. degree-1) polynomials. These claims are generally captured as a linearized
   relation (e.g. Linearized CCS).
4. Decompose the witnesses in some basis b to control the norm growth induced by the folding as
   needed.

    This elegant approach has been proven to be successful, but it is currently the only recipe
for building lattice-based folding schemes with practical performance and which are expressive
enough to capture high-degree relations. Besides, it presents two important limitations, which
seem very intrinsic to the reliance on sumchecks. First, the high-degree relation used needs to be
sumcheck-friendly. This prevents one from folding arbitrary transcripts determined by polynomial
constraints, such as in algebraic folding schemes [BC23,EG23], which are more versatile and enable
native folding of Plonkish and lookup relations without translation overheads. Second, sumcheck
leads to large transcripts, many random oracle calls (e.g. Latticefold+ reports around 100 RO
calls), and therefore a complex verifier circuit. When used in an IVC construction, all verifier
operations, including evaluations of hash functions, have to be encoded in the prover circuit, which
is a significant source of inefficiency.
    Considering the state-of-the art in the lattice-based folding schemes, our work addresses the
following question:
      Can we build a lattice-based algebraic folding scheme that:
                     (i) is round–efficient,
                    (ii) communication–efficient,
                   (iii) expressive for high-degree relations,
                   (iv) and supports an unbounded number of folding iterations?

1.2     Our Contributions

We introduce ProtogaLattice, a new algebraic folding paradigm for folding arbitrary polynomial
relations from lattice-based assumptions. Our new algebraic folding techniques offer small proofs,
6
    We remark that lattice-based folding techniques have also been applied to realize other families
    of constructions, such as SNARKs [BS23,KLNO24,KLNO25,NDC` 24,Che25,KLN` 26], polynomial commit-
    ments [AFLN24,CMNW24,NS24], and generally, range proofs.


                                                   3
low verifier circuit complexity and the ability to capture general relations (arbitrary-degree polyno-
mial constraints) natively. These relations are defined by transcripts of special-sound protocols, like
in [BC23,EG23], as they efficiently capture R1CS, CCS, Plonkish or lookup arithmetizations. We
also present a novel method for norm-control, a witness bootstrapping protocol, that replaces the
witness decomposition needed in sumcheck folding schemes. Our bootstrapping tool can be used
complementary to our (bounded-norm) folding to unlock unbounded-depth folding composition for
IVC applications.
    Overall, our work displays a fresh, unexplored route towards building efficient lattice-based
folding, challenging the assumption that sumcheck-based techniques are the only viable approach.
Concretely, our contributions can be split into two main, independent protocols which we describe
below.

A lattice-based folding scheme for polynomial relations. Our first and main result, which
we introduce in Section 5.2, is a folding protocol for arbitrary polynomial relations defined over the
ring Rq “ Zq rXs{pX N ` 1q for a power-of-two N . Our folding protocol is a reduction of knowledge
for relations Ξ acc ˆ pΞ fold qk Ñ Ξ acc . Here, Ξ acc is a relaxed relation for accumulators of bounded
norm, and Ξ fold is the relation for fresh witnesses of bounded norm.
    Our starting point is an attempt to carry out the techniques of algebraic folding schemes over
groups, such as Protogalaxy [EG23], to the ring setting. In Protogalaxy, k witnesses w1 , . . . , wk
are linearly combined into an accumulator w˚ using (univariate) Lagrange polynomials over a
domain H of size k. Soundness and completeness rely on algebraic relations modulo the vanishing
polynomial of H. Translating this to lattices, however, fails due to the norm expansion of the
accumulator w˚ that results from evaluating the Lagrange polynomials. In particular, when using
Ajtai commitments [Ajt96] where t “ Aw pmod qq is a homomorphic commitment to a small
        q for a public matrix A P R
w P Rm                                    κˆm , the commitment is no longer binding for w with large

norm. As a workaround, we combine witnesses using multivariate polynomials instead. For this
to work, we develop an analogous algebraic machinery using ideals over the ring Rq rX1 , . . . , Xk s
and the corresponding Gröbner basis theory. We provide a more detailed technical overview in
Section 5.1.
    This gives us a relaxed folding scheme where the commitments satisfy only a relaxed binding
property. For soundness to hold, our scheme requires the prover to provide a folding range proof
for the fresh input witnesses (not on the accumulator) as shown in Cyclo [GLLO26].
    We present our folding scheme as a modular framework composed by a relaxed folding pro-
tocol and a folding range proof, that we model as reductions of knowledge [KP23]. We further
instantiate our folding range proof by adapting the sumcheck-based ternary proof from Neo and
SuperNeo [NS26]. This framework admits a broad class of folding range proofs, so any future im-
provement on these schemes for lattices, such as an algebraic range proof with fewer rounds, could
be plugged in to reduce the verifier circuit of ProtogaLattice even further.

Norm control via witness bootstrapping. Our folding scheme can be iterated multiple times
(we set parameters to support L “ 64 iterations), but eventually the norm of the accumulator grows
too large to continue folding. Our second result is a bootstrapping protocol for reducing the norm of
accumulators obtained from folding. This protocol can be used after many folding iterations, when
the norm reaches the upper bound, to reset the running accumulator before continuing with more
folding steps. Concretely, our bootstrapping protocol is a reduction of knowledge from ΞB acc Ñ Ξ acc ,
                                                                                            1     B
where the output norm bound B is smaller than the input norm bound B .       1



                                                   4
Efficiency evaluation. We also adopt a concrete set of parameters and evaluate our scheme for
higher-degree relations and multiple instances to fold, for which we show the corresponding proof
sizes in Table 1. A detailed discussion of the performance and more estimates can be found in
Section 6.


                                                            Proof Size (KB)
                     Witness Size
                                                  degpf q “ 2                    degpf q “ 5
                                          k“1       k“2         k“3      k“1        k“2         k“3
                     0.1 GiB („ 2 ) 30
                                           8.13     14.44       25.36     8.88      27.09       110.86
                     1.0 GiB („ 2 ) 33
                                           9.03     17.05       29.03     9.78      30.55       118.07

Table 1. Concrete proof sizes of ProtogaLattice for a folding depth L “ 64 and k fresh instances to fold for a relation
defined by the polynomial-map f . We exclude the commitments and the instances and report only the proof, in line
with [NS26,GLLO26,Osa26]. See Table 5 for more data.




1.3   Concrete Efficiency and Related Work

In Table 2, we provide a comparison between ProtogaLattice and prior lattice-based folding schemes
for high-degree relations. We remark that while all these schemes support high-degree relations, they
all provide performance numbers for quadratic relations (e.g. R1CS). Hence, for a fair comparison
we also report efficiency numbers for folding one instance at a time for a degree-2 relation with
ProtogaLattice.


                              SuperNeo            Latticefold+          Cyclo               ProtogaLattice
                              [NS26]              [BC25a]               [GLLO26]            (This paper)
          Folded relation CCS/LCCS                CCS/LCCS              CCS/LCCS            Polynomial rela-
                                                                                            tions (incl. CCS)
          Techniques          HyperNova style HyperNova          style HyperNova style Multivariate
                              sumcheck        sumcheck                 sumcheck        polynomial inter-
                                                                                       polation
          Range proof         Binary sumcheck Wider proof, uses Ternary     sum- Ternary sumcheck
                              proof           ring monomials    check proof      proof
          Folding Depth         8                  8                     64                 64
                                                                        bounded             8 with bootstrap
          Proof size         „100 KB              „100 KB               31.4 KB                6.52 KB
          (|witness| “ 227 )
          # Rounds            ą60                 „100                  „60                 „30
Table 2. Comparison table between ProtogaLattice and prior lattice-based folding schemes for high-degree relations.
We consider degree 2 relations (R1CS), witness size of total integer length 227 and only folding k “ 1 fresh instance
at each step.




                                                            5
Concurrent work. PikkuFold [Osa26] advances the line of sumcheck-based folding schemes by inte-
grating optimizations—such as challenge rejection sampling—that are also applicable to our con-
struction. Its primary departure from prior work is its range proof module, which is designed to
minimize the prover-to-verifier communication. While`this range ˘ proof module could fit our frame-
work as well, it requires the verifier to operate on O λ log m bits of projection matrices, which
                                                         2

we estimate is at least tens of megabytes in practice. While generating such large matrices can be
implemented very efficiently, the translation into constraints of such verifier circuit is presumably
complex and adds significant overheads in the iterative setting.

1.4    Summary and Open Problems
Summary. In this work, we construct ProtogaLattice, a novel lattice-based folding scheme for high-
degree polynomial relations that is round and communication efficient and allows for unbounded
folding depth. ProtogaLattice supports folding k witnesses at a time (although efficiency degrades
significantly for large k), and works by iteratively folding and bootstrapping witnesses to reduce
their norm.
    Our construction can be seen as a constant-round folding backbone to which an efficient range-
proof mechanism can be attached, making it modular and flexible for instantiations. This represents
a significant step forward in the design of low-round folding schemes for general relations.
Open Problems. While ProtogaLattice shows a novel approach towards realizing efficient lattice-
based folding for expressive general relations, there are some open questions that we consider
interesting and leave as future work.

1. Constant-Round Norm Check. ProtogaLattice provides a flexible constant-round folding module
   to which any range proof available in the literature can be attached. We instantiate it with a
   sumcheck-based range proof adapted from (Super)Neo [NS26]. To the best of our knowledge,
   succinct range proofs with succinct verification from the literature follow either a split-and-fold
   paradigm (RoK and Roll [KLNO25], RoK Paper SISsors [KLNO24]) or rely on the sum-check
   protocol (LatticeFold+ [BC25b], SALSAA [KLOT25], RoKoko [KLN` 26]). All aforementioned
   range proofs have a logarithmic number of rounds. Therefore, instantiations using one of these
   schemes do not allow to fully realize the constant-round potential of the ProtogaLattice folding
   backbone. We leave as an interesting open question the design of a constant-round range proof
   that exploits the structure of ProtogaLattice.
2. Zero-Knowledge. Depending on the context in which Protogalattice is used, it may be useful to
   have a zero-knowledge variant of the scheme, or to study whether the scheme (or a modification
   of it) satisfies the randomizing property introduced in [KS24] for the purpose of building zero-
   knowledge IVC.

2     Preliminaries

2.1    Notation
We denote by N the set of natural numbers ě 0. We denote the security parameter by λ P N. We
call a function  negligible, denoted pλq “ neglpλq, if pλq “ Opλ´c q for every constant c ą 0, and
call a function ppλq polynomial, denoted polypλq, if ppλq “ Opλc q for some constant c ą 0. We say
that an algorithm is probabilistic polynomial time (PPT) if it consumes randomness and its running

                                                  6
time is bounded by some ppλq “ polypλq. For a finite set S, x Ð$ S denotes sampling x uniformly
at random in S. For an algorithm A, we write y Ð Apxq for the output of A on input x. For two
positive n, m P N, rn, ms is the set tn, n ` 1, . . . , mu, and rns is the set r1, ns. We denote vectors
and matrices using bold fonts. For a vector x, xi denotes its i-th component, and for a matrix M,
Mi,j denotes its pi, jq-th entry. We write 0k and 1k for the vectors of k zeros and ones respectively.
We also write 0kˆk and Ikˆk for the zero matrices and the identity matrices of dimension k ˆ k
respectively. Given two strings x, y, we denote their concatenation by x|y. We use the notation Ξ
to denote an efficiently decidable binary relation. For pairs px, wq P Ξ we call x the statement and
w the witness. We write Ξ “ tpx; wq : ppx, wqu to describe an NP relation. For ease in notation,
we sometimes include the statement x as a part of the witness and omit it, i.e. Ξ “ tw : ppwqu.
We denote the infinity norm simply by the operator || ¨ || “ || ¨ ||8 .

2.2     Reductions of Knowledge
We review the reductions of knowledge framework [KP23]. We adapt the definition from prior
works [NS26,KLNO24] and, as is necessary in the lattice setting, decouple the relations used for
completeness from those used for soundness (extraction).
Definition 1 (Reduction of Knowledge). Let Ξ1 , Ξ2 be relations, called the folding relations,
and let Ξ11 , Ξ21 be relations, called the extraction relations, satisfying Ξi Ď Ξi1 for i P t1, 2u. A
reduction of knowledge from Ξ1 Ñ Ξ2 in the completeness direction and Ξ11 Ð Ξ21 in the soundness
direction is a tuple of three PPT algorithms pG, P, Vq defined as follows:
– Gp1λ , 1` q Ñ p: Takes a security parameter 1λ and a size bound 1` and outputs public parameters
  p, which we assume are input to all algorithms.
– Ppt1 , w1 q Ñ pt2 , w2 q: Takes as input an instance-witness pair pt1 , w1 q and interactively reduces
  the task of checking pt1 , w1 q P Ξ1 to the task of checking pt2 , w2 q P Ξ2 , or returns K.
– Vpp, t1 q Ñ t2 : Takes as input an instance t1 and interactively reduces the task of checking t1 to
  the task of checking a new instance t2 .
    We write xP, Vypt1 , w1 q Ñ pt2 , w2 q to denote the interaction between P, V. The reduction must
satisfy the following properties:
Completeness. For any admissible set of parameters λ, ` P N, given p Ð Gp1λ , 1` q and pt1 , w1 q Ð
 Appq such that pt1 , w1 q P Ξ1 , the prover’s output instance must be equal to the verifier’s output
 instance t2 , and PrrxP, Vypt1 , w1 q P Ξ2 s “ 1.
Knowledge soundness. For any expected PPTadversary A, there exists an expected poly-time
 extractor E with rewinding access to A such that if
                                                 ˇ
                                                 ˇ p Ð Gp1λ , 1` q
                               »                                            fi
                                                 ˇ                                  1
                    pAq :“ Pr–pt2 , w2 q P Ξ21 ˇˇ t1 Ð Appq                fl ě         ,
                                                 ˇ pt2 , w2 q Ð xA, Vypt1 q      polypλq

 then                                        ˇ
                                             ˇ p Ð Gp1λ , 1` q
                           »                                     fi
                                             ˇ
                        Pr–pt1 , w1 q P Ξ11 ˇˇ t1 Ð Appq         fl ě pAq ´ neglpλq.
                                             ˇ w1 Ð E A pp, t1 q
Public coin. All verifier messages are bounded-length random messages, and the verifier does not
 use any other random coins.

                                                     7
2.3       Cyclotomic rings

Let N P N be a power of two. We denote by R :“ ZrXs{xX N ` 1y the power-of-two cyclotomic ring
of dimension N . Let q ą 2 be a prime and denote by Rq :“ R{qR “ Zq rXs{xX N ` 1y where we
represent Zq :“ t´tq{2u, . . . , tq{2uu. If q ” 1 ` 2d1 pmod 4d1 q for some d1 | N , it is well-known that
Rq – FdqN {d1 via the Number Theoretic Transform (NTT).
         1



    For f “ iPrN s fi X i P Rq , we use cfpf q :“ pf0 , . . . , fN ´1 q P ZN   q to denote the coefficient
               ř
vector of f , and ctpf q :“ f0 is the constant term of f . For a vector f P Rnq , we denote by
cfpf q :“ pcfpf0 qJ , . . . , cfpfn´1 qJ q P ZnˆN
                                              q     the concatenation of the transposed coefficient vectors,
and ctpf q “ pctpf0 q, . . . , ctpfn´1 qq P Znq is the first column of cfpf q.


2.4       Sampling Sets

Definition 2 (Sampling sets, [CCKP19]). For an arbitrary ring R, a subset C of R is a
sampling set if the difference of any two distinct elements in C is not a zero divisor. C is further
a strong sampling set if the difference is also invertible.

Example: For R :“ Rq where q is a prime, Zq Ď Rq is a strong sampling set as the difference of
any two distinct elements in this set is invertible in Rq .

Expansion Factor. To ensure that homomorphic commitments remain binding, we need a strong
sampling set Csmall Ď Rq such that for every c P Csmall and any v̂ P R, the norm of cv̂ will not
increase much compared to }v̂}8 . To quantify this property, we define the expansion factor of
Csmall Ď Rq as
                                                             }c ˆ v̂}8
                               }Csmall }op :“     sup                  .                     (1)
                                              cPCsmall ,v̂PR   }v̂}8

Lemma 1 (Generalized Schwartz-Zippel [BCPS18]). Consider a k-variate nonzero poly-
nomial f P Rďd rX1 , . . . , Xk s over a ring R with per-variable degree at most d. Let C Ď R be a
sampling set.
   Then we have PrrÐ$C k rf prq “ 0s ď |C| dk
                                              .

Lemma 2 (Lyubashevsky–Seiler, power-of-two case). Let N and d1 be powers of two with
1 ă d1 ď N , and let q be a prime satisfying q “ 1 ` 2d1 mod 4d1 . Then in the ring Rq “
Zq rXs{pX N ` 1q we have the factorization

                                             d   1
                                             ź        1
                                     N
                                 X       `1“   pX N {d ´ ri q   pmod qq,
                                                i“1


for distinct ri P Fˆ
                   q , so that each X
                                      N {d ´ r is irreducible mod q.
                                            1
                                              i
                                                                                       1{d1
    Moreover, any non-zero ypXq “ i“0 yi X i P R is invertible in Rq if either }y}8 ă q? 1          or }y}2 ă
                                      řN ´1
                                                                                                d
     1
q 1{d .

                                                      8
2.5      Module SIS
We recall the Module Short Integer Solution (MSIS) problem defined in [LS15,PR06,LM06,ACK21].
We will focus on the `8 -norm.

Definition 3 (Module SIS with `8 -norms [ACK21]). Let R :“ ZrXs{pX N ` 1q and Rq :“
R{qR. On input A Ð$ Rκˆm
                      q  , the goal of the MSIS8,q
                                               κ,m,B problem is to find a non-zero x P R such
                                                                                        m

that }x}8 ď B and Ax “ 0 over Rq .

   With the right choice of parameters, we can obtain a MSIS8,q
                                                            κ,m,B problem with 128 bits of security
[ESS` 19].

2.6      Ajtai Commitments
Let R :“ ZrXs{pX N ` 1q and Rq :“ R{qR where q P N is a prime. The commitment CMκ,m,B
introduced by [Ajt96] works as follows:

– KeyGenCompκ, mq Ñ A: sample a random matrix A Ð$ Rκˆm
                                                      q   .
– CompA, xq Ñ cm: given x P R as input, where }x}8 ď B, and no randomness, output cmpxq :“
                             m

  Ax mod q P Rκq .

    Assuming that the MSIS problem MSIS8,q     κ,m,2B is hard it follows that CMκ,m,B satisfies the
binding property for inputs }x}8 ď B: Any adversary that can open a commitment cm to two
different openings x1 , x2 (with `8 -norm less than B), computes x1 ´ x2 ‰ 0 which is a solution to
the MSIS8,q
          κ,m,2B problem where }x1 ´ x2 }8 ă 2B.
    In our results, to argue knowledge soundness of the folding schemes based on Ajtai commitments,
we need the commitments to satisfy a relaxed binding property as defined in [ACK21,ALS20].

2.7      Relaxed Binding Commitment
Let C Ă Rq be a strong sampling set with expansion factor T . We say that the pair p∆, xq P
pC ´ Cq ˆ Rm is a B-weak opening of cm if ∆ ¨ cm “ Ax mod q and }x}8 ď B. Informally, a
commitment is B-relaxed binding if it is infeasible to find two different B-weak openings for
the same commitment. The Ajtai commitment is B-relaxed binding if MSIS8,q        κ,m,4T B is hard: an
adversary that outputs two B-weak openings p∆1 , x1 q, p∆2 , x2 q for the same commitment such that
∆1 x2 ‰ ∆2 x1 breaks the MSIS8,q
                             κ,m,4T B .


3     Warm-up: Algebraic Folding and Protogalaxy

Before getting into technicalities and the description of ProtogaLattice, we provide some intuition
by presenting Protogalaxy, the (classical) algebraic folding scheme that served us as a starting point.
We also introduce some notations that will be useful later. Protogalaxy [EG23] is a folding scheme
which supports general polynomial relations.7 In a nutshell, it can fold k witnesses w1 , . . . , wk that
 7
     Protogalaxy actually supports folding of transcripts of special-sound protocols, and so does our scheme ProtogaLat-
     tice. For simplicity, here we introduce Protogalaxy for the case when special-sound protocol transcripts have only
     one message, such as when folding vanilla R1CS or CCS. We refer to Definition 14 and Section B.1 for details—the
     extension is fairly straightforward.


                                                            9
satisfy a base polynomial relation defined by
                                  !       ˇ                     )
                           Ξ :“ pt, wq ˇ t “ Compwq ^ f pwq “ 0n .                               (2)
                                          ˇ

for some polynomial map f “ pf1 , . . . , fn q : Fm Ñ Fn of degree d defined over a finite field F,
and an additively homomorphic commitment scheme Comp¨q. Such witnesses are combined with an
initial accumulator w0 into a fresh accumulator w˚ . Given w0 and then w1 , . . . , wk , the folding
scheme works by defining a polynomial
                                                      ÿ
                                W pXq “ L0 pXqw0 `       Li pXqwi
                                                         iPrks

where L0 pXq, . . . , Lk pXq are a basis of Lagrange polynomials over some domain H of size k ` 1.
Then, given a random challenge γ P F sent by the verifier, the prover sets w˚ “ W pγq as the
new accumulator. This strategy minimizes the number of rounds of interaction between prover and
verifier, which, when compiled via Fiat-Shamir, results into fewer random oracle calls and smaller
verifier circuits.
    For both completeness and soundness, the scheme critically     relies on the fact that Lagrange
polynomials behave as linear functions modulo ZpXq “ aPH pX ´ aq, the vanishing polynomial
                                                           ś
over H. In short, this enables the prover to provide a quotient of f pW pXqq, which the verifier
can validate via a linear check. We state the linearity lemma from [EG23, Lemma 4.2], which we
formulate for arbitrary domains:

Lemma 3. Let f : Fm Ñ F be a polynomial map and w1 , . . . , wk P Fm vectors. Let pLi qiPrks be the
Lagrange basis over a domain H of size k and ZpXq the vanishing polynomial of H. Then, we have
that                      ˜            ¸
                            k
                            ÿ               ÿk
                        f     Li pXqwi “       Li pXqf pwi q mod ZpXq
                             i“1                i“1
                                                                                 ´ř               ¯
Proof. It suffices to show that ZpXq divides the polynomial given by HpXq “ f       k
                                                                                    i“1 L i pXqwi   ´

  i“1 Li pXqf pwi q. To see this, note that given any j P rks, and taking aj P H, we have that
řk
Lj paj q “ 1 and Li paj q “ 0 for any i P rks, i ‰ j. Therefore,
                                         ˜                ¸
                                            k
                                            ÿ                ÿk
                              Hpaj q “ f        Li paj qwi ´     Li paj qf pwi q
                                         i“1                i“1
                                   “ f pLj paj qwj q ´ Lj paj qf pwj q “ 0

As Hpaj q “ 0 for every j P rks, then ZpXq divides HpXq as claimed.                                [
                                                                                                   \

Accumulators. The relation satisfied by the accumulator is Ξrand , a relaxed relation. The lat-
ter are customary in folding schemes, such as e.g. Relaxed R1CS [KST22,NBS23] or Linearized
CCS [KS24,BC25a,NS26], but Protogalaxy has the peculiarity that accumulator relations are also
high-degree relations. As opposed to witnesses, for which f pwq “ 0n , accumulators evaluate to a
non-zero vector under f .
    Formally, Protogalaxy can be stated as a reduction of knowledge Ξrand ˆ Ξ k Ñ Ξrand . We
introduce the accumulator relation below.

                                                   10
Definition 4 (Structured randomized relation). The generalized randomized relation Ξrand
is the subset Ξrand Ď pC ˆ Ft ˆ Fq ˆ Fm s.t.
                                                               n
                              !`               ˘ ˇˇ            ÿ                   )
                   Ξrand :“        pt, β, eq, w ˇ t “ Compwq ^   powi pβqfi pwq “ e
                                                                 i“1

where the polynomials powi pβq :“          i“1 p1, βi q expand a seed β P F of length t “ rlog ns.
                                        Ât                                 t


     Note that this relation compresses the “rows” of f pwq using a vector of randomizers β P Ft . To
prevent the vector β from having size n, which would result in a linear-time verifier, Protogalaxy re-
lies on the power monomials function powi . This is a form of compressing β into a vector of size log n
which still enables efficient re-randomization. In ProtogaLattice, we use the same randomization
structure, except over ring elements.
     For completeness, we include the full protocol description from [EG23] in Section B.


4     Relations, Architecture and Range Proofs

In this section, we present the relations and architecture of our folding scheme. The architecture’s
formal description is presented at the end of the section in Figure 1. The folding backbone presented
in Section 5 only allows the extractor to recover relaxed openings, thus we formally introduce the
definition of Relaxed Folding Scheme (Definition 8). In Section 4.3 we define the Folding Range
Proof module that is needed to make ProtogaLattice a tight folding scheme.


4.1    Relations

The two relations in Definition 5 below are the relations supported by ProtogaLattice. From a
high-level, Ξf,n,B is the base relation (i.e., the relation satisfied by fresh witnesses) and Ξf,n,B
                                                                                               acc   is
the accumulator relation, both restricted to Ajtai commitments over modules.

Definition 5. Let q be a prime, Rq be a cyclotomic ring, κ, n, m, B be integers. Let A P Rκˆm   q
be an Ajtai commitment key and f : Rm      q Þ
                                             Ý Ñ R  n be a polynomial map such that f p0 q “ 0 . We
                                                    q                                   m     n
define the input relation for the fresh witnesses as follows:
                          #                                                         +
                                                          Aw   “ t mod q, }w}  ď B,
                              x “ t P Rκq ; w P Rm
                            `                        ˘
               Ξf,n,B :“                          q    :
                                                          f pwq “ 0n

And the relation for the accumulator as follows:
                     $                                                                      ,
                     ’
                     ’                                                 Aw “ t mod q,        /
                                                                                            /
                     ’                                                                      /
                                                                        }w} ď B
                     ’
                     &`                                                                     /
                                                                                            .
            acc
                        x “ pt, β, eq P Rκ`log n`1
                                                   ; w P Rm
                                                            ˘
          Ξf,n,B :“                      q                q   :        n                     .
                     ’                                                 ÿ                   /
                                                                         powi pβqfi pwq “ e/
                     ’
                     ’                                                                     /
                                                                                           /
                     ’
                     %                                                                     -
                                                                       i“1

where powi pβq are as in Definition 4.
   We omit the public parameters q, κ, m, p in the subscripts for the sake of readability.

                                                     11
    While the relations Ξf,n,B and Ξf,n,B
                                    acc are our target statements, the extractors of our folding and

bootstrapping backbones only recover a relaxed opening to the input commitments. More precisely,
for an input commitment-witness pair pt, wq in Ξf,n,B or Ξf,n,B
                                                            acc , both extractors output a witness w

satisfying Aw “ t pmod qq, but w itself is of arbitrarily large norm. Rather, our extractor outputs
a small factor s P Rq with bounded operator norm such that }sw} ď B. Definition 6 captures the
notion of weak opening for both fresh instances and accumulators.

Expressing usual constraint systems. The notation t “ Aw and f pwq “ 0n expresses usual con-
straint systems such as R1CS and CCS without assuming any structure on them. As an example,
we illustrate how R1CS translates to our relations. Let w “ px, win , 1q P Fm be a R1CS ex-
tended witness such that Aw ˝ Bw ´ Cw “ 0n for matrices A, B, C P Fnˆm . Then, we can
express such a R1CS relation in our constraint system by simply denoting t “ cmpwq and letting
fi pwq “ aTi w ¨ bTi w ´ cTi w for each i P rns, which is a degree-2 polynomial map.
    We remark that the notation t “ Aw is actually a simplification, as we can actually fold
transcripts of (committed) special-sound protocol transcripts as described in Protostar [BC23].
For these, we can fold committed transcripts pt0 , c1 , t1 , . . . , cµ , tµ q, where ti “ Awi and wi are
the original prover messages. The advantage of these is that they additionally support complex
Plonkish-like arithmetizations with lookups and range checks expressed in more rounds. We provide
extensive details in the Supplementary Material A.2.

Supporting field-native relations. ProtogaLattice is native to constraints expressed directly over the
ring Rq , as the polynomial map f is defined over Rq . If the constraints are natively expressed over
the field Fq instead, one needs to embed Fq constraints and witnesses into an equivalent formulation
over rings. The naïve approach is to embed each Fq element as a single Rq element. This is valid
but somewhat wasteful (Rq elements are much larger than Fq elements), so Latticefold [BC25a]
instead embeds vectors a P Fdq into a single Rq element using the slots of the NTT transform. Pro-
togaLattice is fully compatible with this approach. Other lattice-based folding schemes, including
SuperNeo [NS26] and Cyclo [GLLO26], use a clever embedding technique that enables them to run
the sumcheck prover over the field instead of over the ring. ProtogaLattice can be adapted to sup-
port this embedding, at the cost of an additional reduction of knowledge as done in Cyclo [GLLO26,
Section 2.6]. However, since ProtogaLattice does not run the sumcheck protocol, whether such an
approach is beneficial for ProtogaLattice is unclear.


4.2   Architecture of ProtogaLattice

The architecture of our folding scheme (Figure 1) requires the fresh witnesses to go through a
folding range proof (Definition 7) to allow the extractor to recover the original witnesses from the
extracted relaxed openings of the folding and bootstrapping modules.
    Informally, folding range proofs (Definition 7) relax the norm constraint }w} ď B to a norm
constraint on a small multiple of the witness }sw} ď B at the cost of extra polynomial constraints.
Notably, we require that there exists an extractor that finds the original w satisfying the tight
norm constraint }w} ď B given relaxed openings pw, sq for an }s}op ď % where % ą 1.
    The output relation of folding range proofs may include extra information in the instance, which
we attach as xRP to the instance of our relations Ξf,n,B,%
                                                    fold   and Ξf,n,B,%
                                                                 acc    .



                                                   12
Definition 6. We use the notations of Definition 5 and let nRP , mRP be integers, % ě 1 and
fRP : Rm RP ÞÝÑ RnRP be a polynomial map. We define the two following relaxed relations for fresh
       q           q
witnesses (Ξf,n,B,%
              fold  ) and for accumulators (Ξf,n,B,%
                                             acc     ):

                  fold                                      acc
                 Ξf,n,B,%   :“                             Ξf,n,B,% :“
                 $´        `          ˘           ¯ ,      $´       `                ˘          ¯     ,
                 ’
                 ’
                 ’   x  “     t, x RP  ; pw,  sq    :/
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                           ’   x “    t, x RP , β, e   ; pw, sq   :   /
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      /
                 ’                                   /     ’                                          /
                           κ               m                        κ              mRP
                        R                R                   t P Rq , xRP P Rq ,
                                                           ’                                          /
                   t         ,  x            RP
                                                ,
                 ’                                   /
                 ’
                 ’
                 ’   P     q      RP  P    q
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      /
                             m
                                                           ’                                          /
                                                             β P Rtq , e P Rq ,
                 ’                                   /
                   w      R    ,  s    R   ,
                                                           ’                                          /
                 ’
                 ’
                 ’
                 &     P     q      P    q
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                     .
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                      /
                                                           &w P R m
                                                           ’                                          /
                                                                     q , s P Rq ,
                                                           ’                                          /
                       }s}op ď %,                      ,                                              .
                 ’
                 ’                                   /
                                                     /                                                    .
                                                                  }s}op ď %,
                 ’
                       Aw “ t mod q,
                 ’                                   /
                                                     /     ’                                  /
                 ’
                 ’                                   /
                                                     /     ’
                                                           ’                                  /
                                                                                              /
                 ’                                   /     ’
                                                           ’                                  /
                                                                                              /
                                                                  Aw “ t mod q, }sw} ď B,/
                 ’                                   /
                 ’
                 ’
                 ’     }sw} ď B,                     /
                                                     /
                                                     /
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                           ’
                                                                                              /
                                                                                              /
                                                                                              /
                 ’
                 %                                   /
                                                     -     ’       n                          /
                       f pxRP , wq “ 0n                    ’
                                                           ’      ÿ                           /
                                                                                              /
                                                                     powi pβqfi pxRP , wq “ e /
                                                           ’
                                                           ’                                  /
                                                           ’
                                                           %                                  /
                                                                                              -
                                                                  i“1
      We omit the following public parameters q, κ, m, mRP , p in the subscript for the sake of readability.


4.3     Folding Range Proof
Definition 7. We use the notations of Definitions 5 and 6 and let nRP , mRP be integers and
                                                                   RP is a folding range proof
fRP : Rm RP ÞÝÑ RnRP be a polynomial map. An interactive protocol Π
       q         q
when ΠRP is a reduction of knowledge

                                                  Π
                                        Ξf,n,B ÝÝÝÝÝRP    fold
                                                    ÝÝÝÑ Ξpf,f RP q,n`nRP ,B,1


in the completeness direction and

                                                  ΠRP     fold
                                        Ξf,n,B ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ Ξpf,f RP q,n`nRP ,B,%


in the knowledge soundness direction.

Definition 8. We use the notations of Definitions 5 to 7 and let k, Bext , γ, γ 1 be integers. An
interactive protocol Πrel_fold is a relaxed folding scheme when Πrel_fold is a reduction of knowledge

                                      fold                    Πrel_fold
                                    pΞf,n,B,1 qk ˆ Ξf,n,γ,1
                                                    acc                 acc
                                                            ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1


in the completeness direction and

                                 fold                               Πrel_fold
                               pΞf,n,B ext ,%
                                              qk ˆ Ξf,n,γ
                                                    acc
                                                          1 `kB ,% Ð
                                                               ext
                                                                              acc
                                                                    ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1


in the soundness direction.

   Composing ΠRP with Πrel_fold recovers the fresh witnesses tightly, thanks to the folding range
proof. The accumulator, however, needs no range proof in ProtogaLattice’s architecture. This is
because the accumulator is not extracted but reconstructed. We can do this thanks to the application

                                                             13
   w1 P Ξf,n,B                         w1fold P Ξffold
                                                    YfRP ,n`nRP ,B,1




   w1 P Ξf,n,B                        w1fold P Ξffold
                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,Bext ,%




   w2 P Ξf,n,B                         w2fold P Ξffold
                                                    YfRP ,n`nRP ,B,1




   w2 P Ξf,n,B        Folding         w2fold P Ξffold
                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,Bext ,%
                      Range
                       Proof
         ..                                           ..                      Relaxed-
          .                                            .                      Folding




   wk P Ξf,n,B                         wkfold P Ξffold
                                                    YfRP ,n`nRP ,B,1




   wk P Ξf,n,B                        wkfold P Ξffold
                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,Bext ,%

                                                                                                 1
                                         wacc P Ξfacc
                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,γ,1                      wacc P Ξfacc
                                                                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,γ 1 ,1




      wacc P Ξfacc
                YfRP ,n`nRP ,γ,1        wacc P Ξfacc
                                                  YfRP ,n`nRP ,Bext ,%
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                         wacc P Ξfacc
                                                                                                   YfRP ,n`nRP ,γ 1 ,1




Fig. 1. Folding scheme from Folding Range Proof + Relaxed-Folding architecture. Black arrows represent protocol
inputs and protocol outputs in the completeness direction. Red arrows represent protocol inputs and outputs in the
soundness (extraction) direction. Dotted red arrows represent the extraction of the accumulator that ProtogaLattice
can carry out without additional explicit range checks. Notations follow Definitions 5 to 8.


of Cyclo’s trick [GLLO26], i.e., combining the accumulator with a coefficient 1. Then, subtracting
the (tight) fresh witnesses from the output accumulator yields it directly.
    In the following result, we show that for folding schemes applying Cyclo’s trick, such as Proto-
gaLattice, the construction Πfold in Figure 1 is a tight folding scheme.

Corollary 1. We use the notations from Definitions 5 to 8. Let ΠRP be a folding range proof and
Πrel_fold a relaxed folding scheme such that the output accumulator is computed as
                                                    ÿ
                                        w˚ “ w0 `       cj wj
                                                                   jPrks

for some coefficients cj determined by the transcript. Then Πfold of Figure 1 is a folding scheme

                                                                          Π
                          pΞf,n,B qk ˆ Ξfacc
                                          YfRP ,n`nRP ,γacc ,1 Ð   ÝÑ Ξfacc
                                                                ÝÝfold   YfRP ,n`nRP ,γ 1 ,1 ,

where γacc “ γ 1 ` 2kT B.

                                                              14
Proof (Sketch). The proof is fairly straightforward, so we omit the full details. The goal is to show
that the extractor returns tight witnesses for all k`1 inputs, including the accumulator. Essentially,
the extractor of the folding scheme runs the extractor of Πrel_fold to obtain relaxed openings for
the k fresh inputs, and the extractor of ΠRP to remove their slack. Combined, they yield  řwitnesses
wj with ptj ; wj q P Ξf,n,B for every j P rks. For the accumulator, setting w0 :“ w ´ jPrks cj wj
                                                                                     ˚

gives us that, by linearity, Aw0 “ t0 , where }w0 } ď γ 1 ` 2kT B. The fact that the accumulator is
valid follows from a similar argument to Section D.4. We remark that no rewinding is needed in
this step.

5     ProtogaLattice

5.1    Overview of Our Techniques
                                                                                  acc
We want to build an algebraic folding scheme from lattices for the two relations Ξf,n,γ,1    fold
                                                                                          ˆpΞf,n,B,1 qk Ñ
 acc
Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 defined in Definition 5 where the accumulator w is defined as
                                                           ˚


                                                   k
                                                   ÿ
                                        w˚ pXq “         Li pXqwi .
                                                   i“0

   We begin by investigating the simpler case k “ 1. When folding one fresh witness w1 with an
accumulator w0˚ , we end up with an accumulator w1˚ as follows:

                                   w1˚ “ LpXqw0˚ ` p1 ´ LpXqqw1 .

In this simple case, we can choose H “ t0, 1u, then LpXq “ X. In other words, for a small challenge
γ P C, the linear combination coefficients are γ and 1 ´ γ, which are both small. With C Ă Rq a
strong sampling set of small elements, T the expansion factor of C, and B the norm bound for both
w0˚ and w1 , we obtain
                                        }w1˚ } ď p2T ` 1qB.
However, this approach does not scale for more than k “ 1, as the Lagrange polynomials are of
degree k, blowing up the norm. Hence, if we have k fresh witnesses w1 , . . . , wk and one accumulator
w0˚ , we can proceed recursively and fold each of the wj ’s with the previous accumulator. Specifically,
for all j P rks, we have the following recursive accumulator

                                    wj˚ :“ Xj wj´1
                                               ˚
                                                   ` p1 ´ Xj qwj ,

where Xj is the indeterminate for the evaluation of the degree-1 Lagrange polynomials at the
challenge γj of the j-th folding step.
   Our goal, however, is to support folding multiple witnesses at once. For this, we explicitly study
the sequence pwj˚ qjPr0,ks in Lemma 4, which gives us the closed formula
                                ¨       ˛         ¨                   ˛
                                  źk           ÿk              k
                                                               ź
                          wk˚ “ ˝    Xj ‚w0 `     ˝p1 ´ Xj q       X` ‚ wj .
                                 j“1            j“1               `“j`1

We notice that if all the challenges pγj qjPrks are drawn independently from C, the coefficient c0
of the first witness w0 (since it is the first one, we have w0 “ w0˚ ) is the product of all γj ’s,

                                                   15
thus cś
      0 has coefficients of size OpN
                                     k´1 q. Fortunately, Lemma 4 also provides a change of variables

Yj :“ `“j`1 Xj , which simplifies the closed form of wk˚ to the following
        k


                                                    k
                                                    ÿ
                                    wk˚ “ Y0 w0 `        pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj .
                                                    j“1

    Next, we wish to turn the above relation into a folding scheme for k witnesses and an accumu-
lator, with a single-round challenge py0 , . . . , yk´1 q Ð C k .

Multivariate polynomials for folding over rings. A crucial fact needed to pack all the folding
iterations is the following: the first two rounds (with the random challenges α, δ) only need to be
completed once at the beginning of the k iterations, provided that the commitments to all the
witnesses w0 , . . . , wk are sent prior to α and δ.
     The last major challenge is to establish a generalization for the core relation over Lagrange
polynomials Lemma 3 over the rings. We provide such a generalization in Theorem 1. Recall that
intuitively, Lemma 3 claims that the composition of a polynomial map f and the linear combination
defined by the Lagrange polynomials behaves as a linear function within the interpolation domain
(i.e. modulo the vanishing polynomial). In the univariate case, the vanishing ideal of H is the
principal ideal xZy, but in our multivariate case, the vanishing ideal I (see Definition 9) that
we consider has instead 2k ´ 1 generators. After a careful analysis of I, we establish a reduced
Gröbner basis G (generalized to rings, see Section D.1) in Proposition 1. From a very high-level, a
reduced Gröbner basis (even over a ring) allows to perform Euclidean division, with guarantees on
uniqueness of the remainder and quotient. The latter properties are enough to extend the univariate
Protogalaxy to our multivariate setting.

5.2   ProtogaLattice’s Algebraic Folding PGL-Fold
We present the main folding protocol in Figure 2. We start by introducing a technical lemma that
finds a closed-form expression for accumulators.

Lemma 4. Consider k ` 1 vectors w0 , . . . , wk P Rm
                                                   q and k variables X1 , . . . , Xk . For all j P rks,
define
                              wj˚ “ Xj wj´1   ˚
                                                 ` p1 ´ Xj qwj .
We have the following closed form for wk˚ :
                              ¨       ˛       ¨               ˛
                                k
                                ź           k
                                            ÿ            k
                                                         ź
                       wk˚ “ ˝     Xj ‚w0 `   ˝p1 ´ Xj q   X` ‚ wj .
                                 j“1            j“1                 `“j`1


Equivalently, with respect to the variables Yj :“         `“j`1 Xj for all j P r0, ks, we have
                                                    śk

                                                    k
                                                    ÿ
                                    wk˚ “ Y0 w0 `        pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj .
                                                    j“1


Notice that Yk “
                   śk
                    `“k`1 X` “ 1.


                                                    16
Proof. We define the sequence pwj˚ qjPrks as follows:
1. w0˚ “ w0
2. For all j P rkswj˚ “ Xj wj´1
                            ˚   ` p1 ´ Xj qwj .
We prove by induction on k that:
                            ¨       ˛       ¨               ˛
                              źk          k
                                          ÿ            k
                                                       ź
                      wk˚ “ ˝    Xj ‚w0 `   ˝p1 ´ Xj q   X` ‚ wj .
                                       j“1                j“1               `“j`1


Initialization. For k “ 1, we have w1˚ “ X1 w0˚ ` p1 ´ X1 qw1 . The formula for the closed form of
w1˚ gives:
                               ¨       ˛          ¨                  ˛
                                 ź1            ÿ1             ź1
                         w1˚ “ ˝    Xj ‚w0 `      ˝p1 ´ Xj q      X` ‚ wj
                                        j“1               j“1                `“j`1

                                   “ X1 w0 ` p1 ´ X1 q ¨ 1 ¨ w1 ,

thus the formula holds for k “ 1.
Induction. We have wk`1
                    ˚   “ Xk`1 wk˚ ` p1 ´ Xk`1 qwk`1 . We substitute wk˚ and obtain:
                     »¨        ˛          ¨                 ˛ fi
                         źk            ÿk             źk
           ˚
         wk`1 “ Xk`1 –˝     Xj ‚w0 `      ˝p1 ´ Xj q     X` ‚wj fl ` p1 ´ Xk`1 qwk`1
                               j“1                 j“1               `“j`1
                  ¨           ˛               ¨                       ˛
                     k`1
                     ź                    k
                                          ÿ                  k`1
                                                             ź                               k`1
                                                                                             ź
                “˝          Xj ‚w0 `          ˝p1 ´ Xj q            X` ‚ wj ` p1 ´ Xk`1 q            Xj wk`1
                      j“1                j“1                `“j`1                            `“k`2
                  ¨           ˛                ¨                       ˛
                     k`1
                     ź                   k`1
                                         ÿ                   k`1
                                                             ź
                “˝          Xj ‚w0 `           ˝p1 ´ Xj q           X` ‚ wj ,
                      j“1                j“1                `“j`1

which completes the proof.                                                                                     [
                                                                                                               \

Definition 9. Let Y “ pY0 , . . . , Yk´1 q. For all i, j P r0, k ´ 1s, we define the polynomial

                                                Zij pYq :“ Yi pYj ´ 1q.

Furthermore, we define the ideal I Ă Rq rYs as

                                  I “ xZ0,0 , . . . , Zk´1,k´1 , Z1,0 , . . . , Zk´1,k´2 y

Theorem 1. Let f : Rm   q Ñ Rq be a polynomial map of degree d and w0 , . . . , wk P Rq . We
                                                                                             m

furthermore assume that the Yj ’s and the 1 ´ Yj ’s are either invertible elements in Rq or 0. Then
the following holds:
               ˜                          ¸ ˜                                     ¸
                        ÿk                                  ÿk
              f Y0 w0 `    pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj ´ Y0 f pw0 q `       pYj ´ Yj´1 qf pwj q P I.
                             j“1                                           j“1


                                                            17
For better readability, we relegate the proof to Appendix D.2.

Proposition 1 (Gröbner basis of I). Recall that Zi,j pYq “ Yi Yj ´ Yi and M “ Rq rYs. Let
G :“ tZi,j , 0 ď j ď i ď k ´ 1u and
                                                                              ÿ
              SpGq “ tpQij qi,jPr0,k´1s P pRq rY0 , . . . , Yk´1 sqkpk`1q{2 ,   Qij Zij “ 0u
                                 jďi                                      i,jPr0,k´1s
                                                                              jďi

be the set of syzygies of G. Let R be a set of coset representatives of M{I and S be a set of coset
representatives of the set of Mkpk`1q{2 {SpGq.
    The set G is a reduced Gröbner basis of I. More specifically, for all P P M, there exists a unique
remainder R P R and a unique vector of quotients pQij qi,jPr0,k´1s P S such that
                                                                    jďi
                                                ÿ
                                       P “                 Qij Zij ` R.
                                             i,jPr0,k´1s
                                                 jďi

   For the sake of clarity, we may omit the heavy subscript and write pZij qij for pZij qi,jPr0,k´1s
                                                                                                 jďi
when it is clear from context.

   Note that G Ď I, since the relations Yi`1 Yi “ Yi`1 give Yi Yj “ Yi for every j ď i by induction.
Hence, every Zij with j ď i lies in I. Thus G generates I even though it is strictly larger than the
generating set of Definition 9.

On the practical cost of computing a reduction modulo I. The reduced Gröbner basis explicitly
given in Proposition 1 has a very rich structure which enables significant implementation speedups.
More precisely, since G contains Zii for all i P r0, k ´ 1s, we have Yi2 “ Yi thus Yiα “ Yi for any
exponent α ě 1, i.e all powers are reduced to 1. Additionally, G contains Zij for all j ď i, thus any
product of two variables Yi Yj is reduced to its variable of highest index Ymaxti,ju . Combining both
remarks, we obtain that for a monomial of the form M “ Y0α0 ¨ ¨ ¨ Yk´1       , M ’s remainder modulo G
                                                                        αk´1

is simply Ymaxti st αi ‰0u . Finally, we note that these polynomials are small as their size is constant
on m or n, so this reduction does not dominate in the overall prover time.

Linear norm growth for the accumulator. Iteratively folding by applying a linear combination
with random weights to the witnesses to be fold results in a multiplicative norm growth for the
output accumulator w˚ in the number of folding steps. At each iteration, the prior accumulator is
multiplied by a constant coefficient, carrying the increasing norm further. Specifically, at iteration
`, w`˚ is constructed as a linear combination in which one of the terms is c0 w`´1 ˚ , therefore, at

each new folding step, the norm of the accumulator is multiplied by a constant factor that is the
operator norm of c0 .
    First step is to apply the key technique to reduce norm growth introduced by Cyclo [GLLO26]
in sum-check based folding schemes. The idea behind Cyclo’s trick is that the extractor only needs
k independent challenges to recover k ` 1 (relaxed) input witnesses. Since one of the challenges
can be fixed, we fix the coefficient c0 to 1, thus reducing the norm growth from exponential to
linear in the recursive depth. Unfortunately, the trick does not apply straightforwardly to us, as
the coefficients of our k ` 1 witnesses in the output accumulator are already determined by only k

                                                     18
independent challenges. This is due to the partition of unity property of the Lagrange polynomials
(that is, they always sum to 1).
    Our solution is to artificially increase by 1 the number of independent challenges, allowing us to
fix the accumulator’s coefficient to 1. In our supported relations, in line with most arithmetizations
(e.g R1CS or CCS), the constraints polynomial f is homogenous, i.e. f p0q “ 0. Since the zero
witness is in the input relation and its commitment is also a zero vector, it follows that we can fold
a ”ghost” zero witness without changing the protocol. Rather, the only difference is that a new
variable Yk is appended to the list of challenges, therefore the last coefficient is Lk pYq “ Yk ´ Yk´1
instead of 1 ´ Yk´1 , which is exactly what is needed.8

Definition 10 (Multivariate Lagrange polynomials for Cyclo’s trick). Let k be a posi-
tive integer. We define our multivariate Lagrange polynomials over RrY0 , . . . , Yk s as L0 pYq “ Y0 ,
Lk`1 pYq “ 1 ´ Yk and for all j P rks, Lj pYq “ Yj ´ Yj´1 .

The proof of Proposition 1 can be found in Appendix D.3. We now state the main theorem and
refer the reader to the Appendix D.4 for the proof.

Theorem 2. Let λ be a security parameter, C Ă Rq be a strong sampling set, B be a norm bound
for the fresh input witnesses, γ be a norm bound for the accumulator and γ 1 “ γ ` p2kT ` 1qB.
    Under the hardness of MSIS8,qκ1 ,m,2p2T q2k p2γ 1 `Bq
                                                          , PGL-Fold (Figure 2) is a reduction of knowledge

                                      fold
                                    pΞf,n,B,1 qk ˆ Ξf,n,γ,1
                                                    acc                acc
                                                            ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1

                                  fold
                                pΞf,n,B ext,%
                                              qk ˆ Ξf,n,B
                                                    acc
                                                          ext ,%
                                                                            acc
                                                                 ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 .




5.3    A Witness Bootstrapping Protocol

Witness decomposition for non-linear relations. Despite the integration of Cyclo’s trick to
PGL-Fold, the output accumulator w˚ ’s norm is still linearly growing with each folding step. This
restricts the recursive composition to a bounded folding depth. We overcome this, with a new norm
bootstrapping technique unlocking unbounded folding composition for any IVC application.
    We propose a so-called witness bootstrapping protocol, which is a reduction of knowledge
                                           acc                   acc
                                          Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ Ξf,n,γ,1
                                           acc                   acc
                                          Ξf,n,γ 1 ,% ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ Ξf,n,γ,1

for γ ď γ 1 . In other words, our witness bootstrapping protocol takes an accumulator of norm γ 1
and returns another accumulator with a lower norm γ, thus allowing the folding to continue.
     The witness bootstrapping protocol plays a similar role as the witness decompositions in Lat-
ticeFold(+) and (Super)Neo. In those schemes, a witness w with norm bound γ 1 is decomposed in
k 1 witnesses in basis b as follows
                                                 1 ´1
                                                kÿ
                                           w“         bj wj ,
                                                         j“0

8
    Additionally, there is a polynomial Lk`1 pYq “ 1 ´ Yk , though it is multiplied by a zero-witness, so it does not
    actually contribute to the accumulator.


                                                          19
     Prover input: Public parameters, one accumulator instance-witness pair ppt0 , xRP  0 , β, eq; w0 q P Ξf,n,γ,1 ,
                                                                                                            acc

     k instance-witness pairs pptj , xj q; wj qjPrks P pΞf,n,B,1 q
                                      RP                 fold      k

     Verifier input: Public parameters, accumulator instance pt0 , xRP
                                                                     0 , β, eq, k instances ptj , xj qjPrks
                                                                                                   RP



      Prover                          ˆ RP ˙                                  Verifier
                                       xj
      Define @j P r0, ks, ωj “                                                Check Hpti q “ 1 @i P rks
                                       wj
      Let Y “ pY0 , Y1 , . . . , Yk q                                         δÐC
                                                              δ
                                                         ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
                          t´1
      δ Ð pδ, δ 2 , . . . , δ 2 q
                  řn
      F pXq :“         powi pβ ` Xδqfi pω0 q
                 i“1
                                                           F1 , . . . , F t
                                                         ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ
                                                                              αÐC
                                                              α
                                                         ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
      @i P rts, βi˚ :“ βi ` αδi
                  n                   ´ř             ¯
                                        k
                     powi pβ ˚ q ¨ fi
                 ř
      HpYq :“                           j“0 Lj pYqωj
                 i“1
      Compute pKrs q1ďsďrďk such that:
                                                                                             t
                                                                                                   Fi α i
                      ř                                                                      ř
      HpYq “ F pαq `      Krs pYqZrs pYq                                      F pαq “ e `
                          r,sPrks                                                            i“1
                            sďr
                                                            pKrs qrs
                                                         ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ
                                                                              Check deg pKrs q ď d ´ 2
                                                                              y0 Ð 1
                                                                              py1 , . . . , yk q Ð C k
                                                           y1 , . . . , y k
                                                         ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
      Update witness:
      w˚ “ kj“0 Lj pyqwj
            ř

      Update commitment:                                                      Update commitment:
      t˚ “ kj“0 Lj pyqtj                                                      t˚ “ kj“0 Lj pyqtj
           ř                                                                       ř

      Update instance:                                                        Update instance:
      xRP,˚ “ kj“0 Lj pyqxRP                                                  xRP,˚ “ kj“0 Lj pyqxRP
              ř                                                                       ř
                          j                                                                       j
       ˚     ř                                                                 ˚     ř
      e “       Krs pyqZrs pyq ` F pαq                                        e “       Krs pyqZrs pyq
            r,sPrks                                                                r,sPrks
              sďr                                                                    sďr
                                                                                `F pαq

                                       acc                       acc
Fig. 2. Folding protocol PGL-Fold:Ξf,n,γ,1         fold
                                              ˆ pΞf,n,B,1 qk Ñ Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 . The check Check Hpti q “ 1 @i P rks is only

necessary if the relation is given by a special-sound protocol with at least 1 round; see Section A.2 for details.




                                                              20
where bk ě γ 1 ´ 1. Since the relations considered by those schemes are linear, connecting the
         1


relations satisfied by the wj ’s and that of w is straightforward. In our case, for an accumulator
instance-witness pair ppt, β, eq, wq P Ξf,n,γ
                                          acc
                                                1 ,1 , the relation is not linear, thus connecting the ej ’s

defined as follows
                                                        ÿn
                                  @j P rk 1 s, ej :“       powi pβqfi pwj q
                                                         i“1
to e is not trivial. Our idea is to rely Theorem 1, our generalization of Lemma 3 to multivariate
polynomials.
    For clarity, we explain the intuition in the univariate case. Let us assume that there exists an
evaluation point D such that for all j P rk 1 s, we have Lj pDq “ bj´1 . It follows that under Lemma 3,
we have
                                        k 1

                                                                                                        (3)
                                        ÿ
                                              bj´1 ej “ e ` ZpDqKpDq,
                                        j“1

for a quotient K. Summing up, the protocol that we obtain so far looks as follows: first, the prover
decomposes w in base b and obtains w1 , . . . ,`wk1 . Then, he ˘computes the commitments tj “ Awj ,
and the errors ej such that for all j P rk 1 s, ptj , β, ej q; wj P Ξf,n,b,1
                                                                       acc   . Next, the prover computes
the polynomial                                           ˜ 1             ¸
                                       ÿn                   ÿk
                             HpXq :“        powi pβqfi          Lj pXqwj ,
                                              i“1                  j“1

and the quotient K of H in the division by Z. The prover sends K to the verifier, who checks that
Equation (3) holds. There are at least two problems with the aforementioned construction:
1. The prover needs to convince the verifier that K is correctly formed,
2. For a given b, there may not exist a tuple D satisfying for all j P rk 1 s Lj pDq “ bj´1 .
We solve the first problem by actually finishing the folding of the wj ’s: after receiving K, the verifier
                                                          1 ´1
                                                         kř
sends a challenge γ and thus creates a witness w˚ :“           Lj pγqwj that satisfies
                                                                    j“0

                                n
                                ÿ                             k1 ´1
                                                               ÿ
                                      powi pβqfi pw˚ q “              Lj pγqej “: e˚ .
                                i“1                           j“0

After a careful analysis, we find that the well-formedness of K is ensured by the soundness of the
folding of the wj ’s into w˚ .
    The second problem comes  ř 1 from the fact that the sum of the Lagrange polynomials is constant
equal to 1, therefore when kj“1 bj´1 ‰ 1 (this condition is always satisfied for practical values of
b), no such D exists. Similarly to PGL-Fold, the bootstrapping protocol PGL-Boot also folds a ghost
zero-witness that artificially increases the number of independent challenges. This enables us to get
an extra degree of freedom, and we can set D as follows:
                                              j
                                              ÿ
                                      Dj “          bi “ pbj`1 ´ 1q{pb ´ 1q
                                              i“0

After careful analysis in Theorem 3, the intuitive overview presented in the univariate case extends
to the multivariate case, and yields the protocol PGL-Boot presented in Figure 3.

                                                         21
Prover input: Public parameters, one accumulator instance-witness pair ppt0 , xRP
                                                                               0 , β, eq; w0 q P Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 ,.
                                                                                                  acc


Verifier input: Public parameters, accumulator instance pt, xRP
                                                             0 , β, eq.



Prover                                                                           Verifier
                                        řk1 ´1
Compute base b decomposition                     w j bj
                                          řj“0
                                             1
Compute base b decomposition kj“0              ´1 RP j
                                                 xj b
                                ˆ RP ˙
                                   xj
Let @j P r0, k ´ 1s, ωj “
               1
                                    wj
Define Y :“ pY0 , Y1 , . . . , Yk1 ´1 q
Commit @j P r0, k1 ´ 1s,   ř tj “ Awj
@j P r0, k1 ´ 1s, ej “          powi pβqfi pωj q
                         iPrns
           řn               ´  řk1 ´1              ¯
HpYq :“       powi pβqfi         j“0    Lj pYqω  j
           i“1
Compute pKrs q0ďsďrďk1 ´1 such that:
      ř 1 ´1
HpYq “ kj“0
                         ř
             Lj pYqej ` r,s Zrs pYqKrs pYq

                                                  ptj , ej qjPr0,k1 ´1s , pKrs qrs
                                                         ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ

                                                                                 Check deg pKrs q ď d ´ 2
                                                                                             ř 1 ´1 j ?
                                                                                 Check kj“0           b tj “ t
                                                                                             řk1 ´1 j ?
                                                                                 Check j“0 b ej “ e
                                                                                            ř
                                                                                        ` rs Zrs pDqKrs pDq
                                                                                 y0 Ð 1
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                 py1 , . . . , yk1 ´1 q Ð C k ´1
                                                           y1 , . . . , yk1 ´1
                                                          ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
Define for all j P r0, k1 ´ 1s                                                   Define for all j P r0, k1 ´ 1s
    cj “ Lj pyq                                                                      cj “ Lj pyq

Update witness:
      ř 1 ´1
w˚ “ kj“0    cj wj
Update commitment:                                                               Update commitment:
     ř 1 ´1                                                                           ř 1 ´1
t˚ “ kj“0   cj tj                                                                t˚ “ kj“0   cj tj
Update instance:                                                                 Update instance:
       ř 1 ´1                                                                           ř 1 ´1
xRP,˚ “ kj“0    Lj pyqxRP
                       j                                                         xRP,˚ “ kj“0    Lj pyqxRP
                                                                                                        j
 ˚   ř                                                                            ˚   ř
e “ r,s Krs pyqZrs pyq                                                           e “ r,s Krs pyqZrs pyq
      ř 1 ´1                                                                           ř 1 ´1
    ` kj“0   cj ej                                                                   ` kj“0   cj ej

                                                                    acc           acc
                   Fig. 3. Witness Bootstrapping protocol PGL-Boot:Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 Ñ Ξf,n,γ,1 .




                                                            22
Theorem 3. Let k 1 ě 2 an integer, b “ rpγ 1 ´ 1q1{k s, γ “ p2T pk 1 ´ 1q ` 1qb the target bound for the
                                                                    1


output accumulator, and D P Rkq ´1 be the evaluation tuple such that @j P r0, k 1 ´ 1s, Lj pDq “ bj .
                               1


    Under the hardness of MSIS8,q
                              κ1 ,m,2pk1 ´1qp2T q2k1 γp2γ 1 q
                                                              , PGL-boot defined in Figure 3 is a reduction
of knowledge
                                            acc                   acc
                                           Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ Ξf,n,γ,1
                                      acc                               acc
                                     Ξf,n,γ             k1   ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ Ξf,n,γ,1 ,
                                              ext ,p2T q


where γext :“ pk 1 ´ 1qγp2T qk p2γ 1 q.
                                 1




6     Performance and Efficiency Estimates

In this section, we provide explicit formulae for the proof sizes of PGL-Fold and PGL-Boot, then
we provide concrete parameter settings and efficiency estimates for PGL-Fold. We summarize the
parameters involved in this paper in a glossary Table 3.

            Notation                           Description                           Instantiation example
                q                           Prime modulus                                  log q » 64
               N                     Degree of the cyclotomic ring                              32
               d1                      Number of the CRT fields                                  4
               κ          Height of the commitment matrix for fresh inputs                      54
               κ1      Height of the commitment matrix for accumulator input                    54
               n                      Number of ring constraints                              224.4
                t                             t :“ rlog ns                                      25
               m                   Length of the witness (over Rq )                           224.4
                d                             Degree of f                                        2
               k                      Number of fresh witnesses                                  1
               k1                Number of decomposition witnesses                             —
               L        Maximum number of folding steps without PGL-Boot                        64
               B                  Fresh input witnesses norm bound                        1 (ternary)
               γ                    Input accumulator norm bound                               —
               γ1                  Output accumulator norm bound                               —
                b                  Decomposition basis in PGL-Boot                             —
               BC                    Range of challenge coefficients                            16
               C                             Challenge set                               t´7, ¨ ¨ ¨ , 8uN
               T                        Expansion factor of C                                  480

Table 3. Glossary parameter table, showing notation, description and a concrete instantiation choice for PGL-Fold.
We do not give concrete numbers for PGL-Boot-only parameters since we do not instantiate it explicitly.




6.1    Concrete sizes of PGL-Fold and PGL-Boot
All quantities are originally measured in arbitrary integers, arbitrary ring elements, or arbitrary
challenge set elements. For each of these sets, we write | ¨ |bit the theoretical bit-size of elements of
this set. We have

                 |Zq |bit “ log q,     |Rq |bit “ N log q,              |C|bit “ N log2 pBC ` 1q “ λ,

                                                               23
where BC :“ 2λ{N ´ 1 is the smallest range of challenge coefficients such that the challenge set
C “ r´rBC {2s ` 1, rBC {2ssN satisfies |C| “ 2λ . We note that the `8 -operator-norm of challenges is
upper bounded by T :“ N BC .


                           PGL-Fold                               PGL-Boot

              Commitments κ1 ` k κ N log q
                           `        ˘
                                                                  k1 κ1 N log q
              Instance               RP
                           ´ ` 1q |x `|bit ` pt˘¯
                           pk                   ` 1q N log q      k 1
                                                                  ´ |x
                                                                        RP
                                                                           |bit ` pt ` 1q N log q
                                                                                       ˘¯
              Prover msgs.
                                                                      1 1
                               kpk`1q k`d´2                          k pk ´1q k1 `d´3
                                                                               `
                             t` 2          k
                                                  N log q                2       k1 ´1
                                                                                          N log q
              Challenges     pk ` 2q |C|bit                       pk1 ´ 1q |C|bit
              Rounds         3                                    1

              MSIS bound
                                                 `              ˘       1`              ˘`               ˘
                             p2T q2k pk2 ` k ` 1q γ ` p2kT ` 1qB p2T q2k pk1 q2 ` k1 ` 1 γ ` p2k1 T ` 1qb

Table 4. Theoretical sizes, in bits, of the two protocols. Here t :“ rlog ns, d :“ deg f , k is the number of fresh
instances folded per step and k1 the number of decomposition witnesses.




6.2   Concrete Instantiation
We compute various sets of parameters for PGL-Fold together with the range proof described in
Section C that reach λ “ 128 computational bits of security, estimating the hardness of MSIS via
the lattice-estimator library [APS15]. We target L “ 64 folding steps.
     We include the cost of the most efficient range proof available to our scheme, which we detail
in Section C. Since this range proof is fit to prove that the input witnesses are ternary, i.e with
infinity norm bound B “ 1, we compensate to make a fair comparison by increasing the integer
length mN to reach identical witness bit-length as other schemes. Concretely, our witness size of
0.108 GiB corresponds to Cyclo’s benchmark witness of integer dimension 227 with norm bound
210 . For concrete instantiations, we conservatively assume that κ “ κ1 , i.e that the commitment key
that we use to commit to every fresh witness is the same as the commitment key used to commit
to the final large accumulator.
     The results presented in Table 5 show that the concrete communication of PGL-Fold is very
efficient (under 10 KB) for degree-2 relations (e.g R1CS) and one fresh witness at a time (k “ 1),
and scales slightly faster than linearly with k. We note that part of the scaling with k is due to
the constant number of folding steps L “ 64, not number of fold-able witnesses. The effective
number of foldable witnesses is given by kL, which hinders the efficiency of multi-folding. Another
significant contribution to the total size as k grows is the exponential extraction slack in k` due to
the integration of Cyclo’s linear-growth trick. Notably, the communication cost scales with k`d´2    ,
                                                                                                    ˘
                                                                                                 k
therefore high-degree relations (e.g degpf q “ 5) are barely more expensive than degree-2 relations
for k “ 1, but scale very poorly as k grows.

On the Usage of AI Tools
We have not used generative AI to produce any of the contents in this paper, except for formatting
of some tables and diagrams and for reviewing the consistency of some notation. The only exception
is Section C, where we have used AI tools to import notation and equations from other papers.

                                                         24
         degpf q     witness k     logpqq κ      λ    log2 pBMSIS q Commit. Inst. Proof Total
                   size(GiB)                                         (KB)   (KB) (KB) (KB)

            2        0.108     1    64     54 128.4         53.2       27.0       6.3     8.13     41.4
            2        0.108     2    120    58 130.1         75.2        81.6      11.7    14.44   107.7
            2        0.108     3    192    59 128.8         96.5       177.0      18.8    25.36   221.2
            5        0.108     1    64     54 128.4         53.2       27.0       6.3     8.88     42.2
            5        0.108     2    120    58 130.0         75.2        81.6      11.7    27.09   120.4
            5        0.108     3    192    59 128.8         96.5       177.0      18.8   110.86   306.7
            2         1.0      1    64     57 129.6         54.5       28.5       7.0     9.03    44.53
            2         1.0      2    128    56 129.5         76.5        84.0      14.0    17.05   115.1
            2         1.0      3    200    58 128.5         97.8       181.3      21.9    29.03   232.2
            5         1.0      1    64     57 129.6         54.5       28.5       7.0     9.78     45.3
            5         1.0      2    128    56 129.5         76.5        84.0      14.0    30.55   128.6
            5         1.0      3    200    58 128.5         97.8       181.3      21.9   118.07   321.3

Table 5. Parameter selection and concrete sizes of PGL-Fold with the range proof described in Section C, targeting
number of folding steps L “ 64.




Acknowledgements
David Balbás did part of this research while at IMDEA Software Institute and while doing an
internship at Input-Output. We thank Michał Osadnik for helpful discussions on lattice-based
folding.




                                                       25
                                               References


[ACK21]   Thomas Attema, Ronald Cramer, and Lisa Kohl. A compressed Σ-protocol theory for lattices. In Tal
          Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, CRYPTO 2021, Part II, volume 12826 of LNCS, pages 549–579,
          Virtual Event, August 16–20, 2021. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_19.
[AFK22]   Thomas Attema, Serge Fehr, and Michael Klooß. Fiat-Shamir transformation of multi-round interactive
          proofs. In TCC 2022, Part I, LNCS, pages 113–142, November 2022. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-22318-1_
          5.
[AFLN24] Martin R. Albrecht, Giacomo Fenzi, Oleksandra Lapiha, and Ngoc Khanh Nguyen. SLAP: Succinct
          lattice-based polynomial commitments from standard assumptions. LNCS, pages 90–119, June 2024.
          doi:10.1007/978-3-031-58754-2_4.
[Ajt96]   Miklós Ajtai. Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract). In 28th ACM STOC,
          pages 99–108, Philadephia, PA, USA, May 22–24, 1996. ACM Press. doi:10.1145/237814.237838.
[ALS20]   Thomas Attema, Vadim Lyubashevsky, and Gregor Seiler. Practical product proofs for lattice com-
          mitments. In Daniele Micciancio and Thomas Ristenpart, editors, CRYPTO 2020, Part II, vol-
          ume 12171 of LNCS, pages 470–499, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 17–21, 2020. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-030-56880-1_17.
[APS15]   Martin R Albrecht, Rachel Player, and Sam Scott. On the concrete hardness of learning with errors.
          Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2015.
[BC23]    Benedikt Bünz and Binyi Chen. Protostar: Generic efficient accumulation/folding for special-sound
          protocols. In ASIACRYPT 2023, Part II, LNCS, pages 77–110, December 7–11, 2023. doi:10.1007/
          978-981-99-8724-5_3.
[BC25a]   Dan Boneh and Binyi Chen. LatticeFold: A lattice-based folding scheme and its applications to succinct
          proof systems. In ASIACRYPT 2025, Part III, LNCS, pages 330–362, December 7–11, 2025. doi:
          10.1007/978-981-95-5099-9_11.
[BC25b]   Dan Boneh and Binyi Chen. LatticeFold+: Faster, simpler, shorter lattice-based folding for suc-
          cinct proof systems. LNCS, pages 327–361, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2025. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-032-01907-3_11.
[BCFW25] Benedikt Bünz, Alessandro Chiesa, Giacomo Fenzi, and William Wang. Linear-time accumula-
          tion schemes. In TCC 2025, Part I, LNCS, pages 369–399, November 2025. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-032-12287-2_13.
[BCL` 21] Benedikt Bünz, Alessandro Chiesa, William Lin, Pratyush Mishra, and Nicholas Spooner. Proof-
          carrying data without succinct arguments. In Tal Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, CRYPTO 2021,
          Part I, volume 12825 of LNCS, pages 681–710, Virtual Event, August 16–20, 2021. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-030-84242-0_24.
[BCMS20] Benedikt Bünz, Alessandro Chiesa, Pratyush Mishra, and Nicholas Spooner. Recursive proof com-
          position from accumulation schemes. In Rafael Pass and Krzysztof Pietrzak, editors, TCC 2020,
          Part II, volume 12551 of LNCS, pages 1–18, Durham, NC, USA, November 16–19, 2020. doi:
          10.1007/978-3-030-64378-2_1.
[BCPS18] Anurag Bishnoi, Pete L. Clark, Aditya Potukuchi, and John R. Schmitt. On zeros of a polynomial in a
          finite grid. Combinatorics, Probability and Computing, 27(3):310–333, 2018.
[BMNW25] Benedikt Bünz, Pratyush Mishra, Wilson Nguyen, and William Wang. Accumulation Without Ho-
          momorphism. In Raghu Meka, editor, 16th Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference
          (ITCS 2025), volume 325 of Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs), pages 23:1–23:25,
          Dagstuhl, Germany, 2025. Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik. URL: https://
          drops.dagstuhl.de/entities/document/10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.2025.23, doi:10.4230/LIPIcs.ITCS.
          2025.23.
[BS23]    Ward Beullens and Gregor Seiler. LaBRADOR: Compact proofs for R1CS from module-SIS. LNCS,
          pages 518–548, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2023. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-38554-4_17.
[CCKP19] Shuo Chen, Jung Hee Cheon, Dongwoo Kim, and Daejun Park. Verifiable computing for approximate
          computation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2019/762, 2019. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/
          2019/762.
[Che25]   Binyi Chen. Symphony: Scalable SNARKs in the random oracle model from lattice-based high-arity
          folding. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2025/1905, 2025. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/
          1905.
[CMNW24] Valerio Cini, Giulio Malavolta, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Hoeteck Wee. Polynomial commitments from
          lattices: Post-quantum security, fast verification and transparent setup. LNCS, pages 207–242, Santa
          Barbara, CA, USA, August 2024. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6_7.
[CT10]    Alessandro Chiesa and Eran Tromer. Proof-carrying data and hearsay arguments from signature cards.
          In Innovations in Computer Science - ICS 2010, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, January 5-7,
          2010. Proceedings, pages 310–331, 2010.
[EG23]    Liam Eagen and Ariel Gabizon. ProtoGalaxy: Efficient ProtoStar-style folding of multiple instances.
          Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2023/1106, 2023. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1106.
[ESS` 19] Muhammed F. Esgin, Ron Steinfeld, Amin Sakzad, Joseph K. Liu, and Dongxi Liu. Short lattice-based
          one-out-of-many proofs and applications to ring signatures. In Robert H. Deng, Valérie Gauthier-Umaña,
          Martín Ochoa, and Moti Yung, editors, ACNS 19, volume 11464 of LNCS, pages 67–88, Bogota, Colombia,
          June 5–7, 2019. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-21568-2_4.
[FKNP24] Giacomo Fenzi, Christian Knabenhans, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Duc Tu Pham. Lova: Lattice-based
          folding scheme from unstructured lattices. In ASIACRYPT 2024, Part IV, LNCS, pages 303–326,
          December 7–11, 2024. doi:10.1007/978-981-96-0894-2_10.
[FS87]    Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to identification and signature
          problems. In Andrew M. Odlyzko, editor, CRYPTO’86, volume 263 of LNCS, pages 186–194, Santa
          Barbara, CA, USA, August 1987. doi:10.1007/3-540-47721-7_12.
[GLLO26] Albert Garreta, Helger Lipmaa, Urmas Luhaäär, and Michał Osadnik. Cyclo: Lightweight lattice-based
          folding via partial range checks. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2026, pages 33–62, Cham,
          2026. Springer Nature Switzerland.
[GM24]    Albert Garreta and Ignacio Manzur. FLI: Folding lookup instances. LNCS, pages 402–435, Decem-
          ber 7–11, 2024. doi:10.1007/978-981-96-0935-2_13.
[KLN` 26] Michael Klooss, Russell W. F. Lai, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, Michał Osadnik, and Lorenzo Tucci. RoKoko:
          Lattice-based succinct arguments, a committed refinement. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2026/575,
          2026. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2026/575.
[KLNO24] Michael Klooß, Russell W. F. Lai, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Michal Osadnik. RoK, paper, SISsors toolkit
          for lattice-based succinct arguments - (extended abstract). LNCS, pages 203–235, December 7–11, 2024.
          doi:10.1007/978-981-96-0935-2_7.
[KLNO25] Michael Klooß, Russell W. F. Lai, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Michal Osadnik. RoK and roll - verifier-
          efficient random projection for Õpλq-size lattice arguments - (extended abstract). In ASIACRYPT 2025,
          Part III, LNCS, pages 297–329, December 7–11, 2025. doi:10.1007/978-981-95-5099-9_10.
[KLOT25] Shuto Kuriyama, Russell W. F. Lai, Michal Osadnik, and Lorenzo Tucci. SALSAA - sumcheck-aided
          lattice-based succinct arguments and applications. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2025:2124, 2025. URL:
          https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/2124.
[KP23]    Abhiram Kothapalli and Bryan Parno. Algebraic reductions of knowledge. In CRYPTO 2023, Part IV,
          LNCS, pages 669–701, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2023. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3_21.
[KS24]    Abhiram Kothapalli and Srinath T. V. Setty. HyperNova: Recursive arguments for customizable
          constraint systems. LNCS, pages 345–379, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2024. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-031-68403-6_11.
[KST22]   Abhiram Kothapalli, Srinath Setty, and Ioanna Tzialla. Nova: Recursive zero-knowledge arguments
          from folding schemes. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors, CRYPTO 2022, Part IV,
          volume 13510 of LNCS, pages 359–388, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 15–18, 2022. doi:10.1007/
          978-3-031-15985-5_13.
[LM06]    Vadim Lyubashevsky and Daniele Micciancio. Generalized compact Knapsacks are collision resistant.
          In Michele Bugliesi, Bart Preneel, Vladimiro Sassone, and Ingo Wegener, editors, ICALP 2006, Part II,
          volume 4052 of LNCS, pages 144–155, Venice, Italy, July 10–14, 2006. Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.
          doi:10.1007/11787006_13.
[LS15]    Adeline Langlois and Damien Stehlé. Worst-case to average-case reductions for module lattices.
          75(3):565–599, 2015. doi:10.1007/s10623-014-9938-4.
[NBS23]   Wilson Nguyen, Dan Boneh, and Srinath Setty. Revisiting the nova proof system on a cycle of curves.
          Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2023/969, 2023. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/969.
[NDC` 24] Wilson D. Nguyen, Trisha Datta, Binyi Chen, Nirvan Tyagi, and Dan Boneh. Mangrove: A scalable
          framework for folding-based SNARKs. LNCS, pages 308–344, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2024.
          doi:10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6_10.
[NPR26]   Anca Nitulescu, Nikitas Paslis, and Carla Ràfols. FLIP-and-prove r1CS. IACR Communications in
          Cryptology, 2(4), 2026. doi:10.62056/ayc3tx4e-.


                                                      27
[NS24]    Ngoc Khanh Nguyen and Gregor Seiler. Greyhound: Fast polynomial commitments from lattices. LNCS,
          pages 243–275, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 2024. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6_8.
[NS26]    Wilson Nguyen and Srinath Setty. Neo and superneo: Post-quantum folding with pay-per-bit costs over
          small fields. page 492–523, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2026. Springer-Verlag. doi:10.1007/978-3-032-35424-2_
          17.
[Osa26]   Michał Osadnik. PikkuFold: Efficient folding in a few kilobytes. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
          2026/1809, 2026. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2026/1809.
[Pau07]   Franz Pauer. Gröbner bases with coefficients in rings. Journal of Symbolic Computation, 42(11-
          12):1003–1011, 2007.
[PR06]    Chris Peikert and Alon Rosen. Efficient collision-resistant hashing from worst-case assumptions on cyclic
          lattices. In Shai Halevi and Tal Rabin, editors, TCC 2006, volume 3876 of LNCS, pages 145–166, New
          York, NY, USA, March 4–7, 2006. doi:10.1007/11681878_8.
[STW23]   Srinath Setty, Justin Thaler, and Riad Wahby. Customizable constraint systems for succinct arguments.
          Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2023/552, 2023. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/552.
[Val08]   Paul Valiant. Incrementally verifiable computation or proofs of knowledge imply time/space efficiency.
          In Ran Canetti, editor, TCC 2008, volume 4948 of LNCS, pages 1–18, San Francisco, CA, USA,
          March 19–21, 2008. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-78524-8_1.




                                                      28
A     Deferred Preliminaries

A.1    Commitments
Definition 11. A commitment scheme is a tuple of algorithms pSetup, Com, VerComq that work as
follows:
– Setup 1λ Ñ ck takes as input the security parameter in unary and returns the commitment key
         ` ˘

  ck, and descriptions of the input space D, commitment space C and opening space O.
– Compck, vq Ñ pc, oq takes the commitment key ck and a value v P D, and outputs a commitment
  c and an opening o.
– VerCompck, c, v, oq Ñ b takes as input a commitment c, a value v and an opening o, and accepts
  pb “ 1q or rejects pb “ 0q.

    A commitment scheme should satisfy the correctness and binding properties, and often they
also satisfies a hiding property.
Correctness. For all λ P N and any input v P D we have:
                   ”           ´ ¯                                              ı
                Pr ck Ð Setup 1λ , pc, oq Ð Compck, vq : VerCompck, c, v, oq “ 1 “ 1

Binding. For every polynomial-time adversary A, the following probability is negligible in the
security parameter
               „                                                                           
                         v ‰` v 1˘ ^ VerCompck, c, v, oq “ 1                    1   1
            Pr                                                ; VerCom pck, c, v , o q “ 1
                 ck Ð Setup 1λ , pc, v, o, v 1 , o1 q Ð Apckq

Hiding. For ck Ð Setup 1λ and @v, v 1 P D, the following two distributions are statistically close:
                           ` ˘

Compck, vq « Com pck, v 1 q .

A.2    Special Sound Protocols and Committed Transcripts
We refer to special-soundness and non-interactive arguments as defined by [AFK22].

Definition 12 (Public-coin interactive proof). An interactive proof Π “ pP, Vq for relation
Ξ is an interactive protocol between two probabilistic machines, a prover P, and a polynomial time
verifier V. Both P and V take as public input a statement x and, additionally, P takes as private
input a witness w such that px, wq P Ξ. The verifier V outputs 1 if it accepts and 0 otherwise. Its
output is denoted by pPpx, wq, Vpxqq. Accordingly, we say the corresponding transcript is accepting
or rejecting. The protocol is public coin if the verifier randomness is public. The verifier messages
are referred to as challenges. Π is a p2µ ` 1q-move protocol if there are µ ` 1 prover messages ai
and µ verifier messages ci . We refer to the transcripts as:

                                    tr “ pa0 , c1 , a1 , . . . , cµ´1 , aµ q

   In this work, we will often refer to transcripts of special-sound protocols as witnesses, and simply
denote them by w. We do so following the line of work started by Protostar [BC23], which shows a
family of special-sound protocols to prove different arithmetized relations that are used in common
SNARKs. Our folding schemes will actually fold these transcripts.

                                                      29
Definition 13 (Special Soundness). Let Π be a p2µ ` 1q-move public-coin interactive proof
Π for relation Ξ, where the verifier samples its challenges from a set of size N . We say that
Π is pα1 , . . . , αµ q-out-of-N special sound if there exists a PPTextractor E such that, given any
pα1 , . . . , αµ q-tree of accepting transcripts for a statement x, E outputs a witness w such that
px, wq P Ξ with overwhelming probability.

Random-Oracle Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge. We say that a p2µ ` 1q-move interactive
protocol is special-sound, if it is αµ -out-of-N special-sound, for α “ polypλq and N “ λωp1q . The
results of [AFK22] imply that the non-interactive version of the protocol, after applying Fiat-Shamir
transformation [FS87], is knowledge-sound with error neglpλq in the random oracle model.
    For now on, we follow the conventions from Protostar [BC23,EG23] for committed transcripts
and for committed relations which are consistent with respect to the Fiat-Shamir transformation.
We introduce below the notions of committed transcripts and hash consistency used in [BC23,EG23].

Definition 14 (Committed Transcripts). For special-sound protocols with a transcript w “
pa0 , c1 , a1 , . . . , cµ´1 , aµ q, we denote their commited transcript by

                      t “ Compwq “ pCompa0 q, c1 , Compa1 q, . . . , cµ´1 , Compaµ qq

where Com is used as shorthand for the operation of obtaining a committed transcript from a
standard transcript.

     We remark that if an interactive proof is special-sound, the committed version of the protocol
(i.e. such that all prover messages are committed) is computationally special sound. The trans-
formation holds by extending the definition of a valid extractor: for a committed special-sound
protocol, given a valid tree of transcripts, an extractor should be able to extract either a witness
of the relation or a collision for the commitment scheme with overwhelming probability, breaking
commitment binding in the latter case. We refer to [EG23] for details and a formal exposition.
     Finally, we can transform committed interactive special-sound proofs into non-interactive ones
via the Fiat-Shamir transform. We say that a transcript is hash-consistent if it has been obtained
by a correct application of the Fiat-Shamir transform, as follows:

Definition 15 (Hash consistency). Let Hp¨q be a hash function mapping to the challenge space
and modeled as a random oracle. We say that a µ-round commited transcript t is H-consistent if:
– Let ti “ pCompa0 q, c1 , Compa1 q, . . . , Compai´1 qq be the partial (committed) transcript of t up to
  the i-th round.
– For every i P rµs, it holds that ci “ Hpti q.
    For simplicity, we simply write Hptq “ 1 if t is H consistent for the random oracle H.

B     Full Description of Protogalaxy

B.1    Protogalaxy Description
Protogalaxy [EG23] folds a set of k witnesses w1 , . . . , wk that satisfy a base polynomial relation
defined by
                          !       ˇ                                            )
                  Ξ :“ pt, wq ˇ t “ Compwq ^ f pwq “ 0n ^ Hptq “ 1 .                              (4)
                                  ˇ


                                                    30
for some polynomial map f “ pf1 , . . . , fn q : FM Ñ Fn of degree d defined over a finite field F.
We recall that whenever we write t “ Compwq, we refer to the committed relations introduced
in Definition 14 and the hash consistency check Hptq “ 1 is as stated in Definition 15.
     We present a description of Protogalaxy, which we generalize to work over arbitrary Lagrange
domains H Ă F that are not necessarily a subgroup.9 We fix positive integers d, k ă n, and denote
tś:“ log n. We also let L0 pXq, L1 pXq, . . . , Lk pXq be the Lagrange basis over H, and ZpXq :“
   aPH pX ´ aq be the corresponding vanishing polynomial. We present the protocol in Figure 4 and
 state it as a reduction of knowledge below. For the proof, we refer to [EG23].


            Prover input: Instance-witness pairs ppt0 , β, eq, w0 q and tpti , wi quiPrks
            Verifier input: Instances pt0 , β, eq and tti uiPrks

            Prover                                                                          Verifier
                                                                                            Check Hpti q “ 1, for i P rks
                                                                          δ Ð$ F
                                                                       ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
                                    t´1                                                                                  t´1
            δ :“ pδ, δ 2 , . . . , δ 2 q                                                    δ :“ pδ, δ 2 , . . . , δ 2         q
                        řn
            F pXq :“          powi pβ ` Xδq fi pw0 q
                       i“1
                                                                         F1 , . . . , F t
            Let Fi be the i-th coef. of F pXq                          ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ
                                                                          α Ð$ F
                                                                       ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
            β :“ β ` α ¨ δ                                                                  β :“ β ` α ¨ δ
                             t                                                                                 t
                                   Fi α i                                                                            Fi α i
                             ř                                                                                 ř
            F pαq :“ e `                                                                    F pαq :“ e `
                             i“1              ˜                    ¸                                           i“1
                         n                        k
                             powi pβ ˚ q fi
                         ř                        ř
            GpXq :“                                     Lj pXqwj
                       i“1                        j“0

            Compute KpXq such that:
            GpXq “ F pαqL0 pXq ` ZpXqKpXq
                                                                          KpXq
                                                                       ÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÑ
                                                                          γ Ð$ F
                                                                       ÐÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝÝ
            e˚ :“ F pαqL0 pγq ` ZpγqKpγq                                                    e˚ :“ F pαqL0 pγq ` ZpγqKpγq
                     k                                                                               k
            w˚ :“                                                                           t˚ :“
                     ř                                                                               ř
                          Li pγqwi                                                                         Li pγqti
                    i“0                                                                              i“0


                                    Fig. 4. Protogalaxy folding protocol Ξrand ˆ Ξ k Ñ Ξrand




Theorem 4. The protocol in Figure 4 is a reduction of knowledge for the relations Ξrand ˆ Ξ k Ñ
Ξrand .
9
    The most efficient instantiation, however, is when H is indeed the subgroup of roots of unity of F of order k ` 1
    for a power-of-two k ` 1, due to the advantage of efficient FFT-based polynomial arithmetic.


                                                                       31
C      A Standalone Range Proof from Neo

In this section, we present the range proof from Neo/SuperNeo [NS26] as a standalone component,
so that it can be plugged into a folding scheme such as ProtogaLattice independently.10 We also
carry out a performance comparison, particularly on proof size, with the range proof of Lattice-
fold [BC25a]. We remark that Cyclo [GLLO26] uses the same range proof as Neo.
    Neo/SuperNeo embeds a norm check inside a larger batched sumcheck that simultaneously
handles CCS constraints and accumulated evaluation claims. Strictly speaking, the protocol is
a reduction: it converts a claim on the bound of the witnesses into an evaluation of multilinear
extensions.


C.1      Notation and Relations

Let q be a prime and ν ě 1 an integer. The witness is a vector w P FM q over the base field, and
all challenges are drawn from the extension Fq Ě Fq , chosen so that 1{q ν “ neglpλq. In practice,
                                               ν

ν “ 2 suffices for the Schwartz-Zippel bounds.
    We assume that M is a power of two, padding witness vectors with zeroes whenever necessary,
and let ` :“ log2 M denote the number of sumcheck rounds.

Polynomials. For ` ě 1 let eqpx, yq :“ `i“1 xi yi ` p1 ´ xi qp1 ´ yi q . For v P FM
                                                                                  q we write v
                                                                                             r for the
                                       ś `                            ˘

multilinear extension of v, evaluated at points of Fqν through the inclusion Fq Ď Fqν :
                                                    `

                                                                  ÿ
                                               vrprq “                     eqpr, xq vx .
                                                                xPt0,1u`


Relations. Fix b, k and M , and let Com be a binding commitment on FM     q . The range check is a
reduction of knowledge Ξnorm Ñ Ξeval , where the relations are defined as follows
                             !`                                                                      )
                                                                 : wi P FM
                                                            ˘
                 Ξnorm :“         pti qiPrks ; pwi qiPrks                q , ti “ Compwi q, }w }
                                                                                              i 8 ă b

to                           !`                                                                       )
                               pti qi , r 1 P F`qν , pyi1 qi ; pwi qi : ti “ Compwi q, yi1 “ w
                                                                     ˘
                  Ξeval :“                                                                   Ăi pr 1 q .

Note that the commitments are not modified throughout the reduction of knowledge.


C.2      Protocol

The protocol is simply exploiting the following identity over Fq ,

                                                                             b´1
                                                                                                             (5)
                                                                             ź
                                     }x}8 ă b           ðñ                         px ´ aq “ 0.
                                                                           a“´b`1

10
     We have used generative AI tools in this section to import notation and equations from [NS26], as well as to
     elaborate tables and protocol diagrams.


                                                                    32
   Applied coordinate-wise to w P FM    q and lifted to multilinear extensions, the condition is a
standard zero-check that we can express as a sumcheck. Moreover, the k instances are batched with
powers of a single challenge γ P Fqν . This yields:

                                    k                b´1    ´             ¯
                                                                                                                 (6)
                                    ÿ                ź
                   NCpXq :“              γ i´1 ¨                w
                                                                Ăi pXq ´ a ,          X :“ pX1 , . . . , X` q.
                                   i“1             a“´b`1

Note that the polynomial has coefficients in Fqν . This is because γ needs to come from the extension
field for soundness.
  Protocol ΠNC
  Input: pti qi ; pwi qiPrks with wi P FM
        `                       ˘
                                            q

  Output: pti qi , r 1 , pyi1 qi ; pwi qi
          `                               ˘


  1. V: sample and send α Ð$ F`qν and γ Ð$ Fqν .
  2. P Ø V: define QpXq :“ eqpX, αq ¨ NCpXq P Fqν rXs for NC as in Equation (6). Run SumCheckp0; Qq over
     t0, 1u` , reducing 0 “ xPt0,1u` Qpxq to an evaluation claim v “ Qpr 1 q at r 1 Ð$ F`qν .
                                 ř                                        ?


  3. P: send yi1 Ð w Ăi pr 1 q P Fqν for all i P rks.
  4. V: derive θ :“ ki“1 γ i´1 b´1       a“´b`1 yi ´ a and accept if and only if v “ eqpr , αq ¨ θ.
                      ř               ś        ` 1    ˘                            ?     1

  5. Output pti qi , r 1 , pyi1 qi ; pwi qi .
                `                          ˘


The verifier’s work in step 4 is kp2b ´ 1q multiplications in Fqν together with the Op`q cost of
evaluating eqpr 1 , αq and of the sumcheck verifier. For the completeness and soundness analysis, we
defer the reader to [NS26].

C.3    Proof size for ternary vectors (b “ 2)

Next, we analyze the proof size of the protocol. Setting b “ 2 means }wi }8 ă 2, that is, every
coordinate lies in t´1, 0, 1u. This is the setting chosen by Neo, Latticefold and Cyclo. The sumcheck
contributes ` rounds, in which a univariate polynomial of degree 4 is sent at each round. This can
be done with four field elements sent per round (as one of them can be derived as a check). Step 3
contributes k elements. Since the challenges are not counted, we have that

                                   |πNC | “ 4` ` k ¨ νrlog2 qs bits.                              (7)
                                              `      ˘


    In Table 6, we give the resulting transcript sizes for parameters ν “ 2 and a 64-bit prime q. At
the current parameter setting, the soundness analysis gives around 121 bits of security. To see this,
observe that we are drawing challenges from a 128 bit-size extension field. The remaining 7 bits are
lost due to the sumcheck itself.

Comparison with LatticeFold’s range proof. LatticeFold [BC25a] checks norms with the polynomial
                                                2k
                                                 ÿ dec                       b´1
                                                                             ź     ´              ¯
                             gnorm pxq :“                µi ¨ eqpβ, xq ¨               fˆi pxq ´ j ,
                                                                                        r
                                                   i“1                     j“´pb´1q

which is essentially identical to NC of Equation (6). The difference with Neo is that LatticeFold
runs the sumcheck over the cyclotomic ring Rq , with challenges from a strong sampling set C Ď Rq ,

                                                                  33
                                     M      `      k“1      k“2       k“3       k“4
                                    216    16      1.02    1.03     1.05      1.06
                                    220    20      1.27    1.28     1.30      1.31
                                    224    24      1.52    1.53     1.55      1.56
                                    228    28      1.77    1.78     1.80      1.81
                                    230    30      1.89    1.91     1.92      1.94
             Table 6. Transcript size of the range check ΠNC in KB, at b “ 2, ν “ 2 and a 64-bit prime q.




so each round message is a tuple of Rq -elements. Neo runs the sumcheck over the field Fqν , resulting
into much smaller communication.11 To give a precise estimate, at ` “ 26 rounds, we have that
LatticeFold’s range check is 52 KB, whereas Neo’s range check is 1.6 KB.

Adapting the range proof to ProtogaLattice. A ProtogaLattice witness is a ring vector, which we
write wR P Rm   q to distinguish it from the field vector w of this appendix. Since }wR }8 is by
definition the `8 norm of its coeficient vector, ΠNC applies seamlessly with w :“ cfpwR q P FN          q .
                                                                                                          m

Observe that its output fits our Definition 7 almost directly: the evaluation point and the claimed
values become the public input xRP :“ pr 1 , pyi1 qi q, while the k claims yi1 “ w
                                                                                 Ăi pr 1 q are linear in the
witness, so fRP has degree one. The remaining step is to express the (extension) field evaluation
r 1 q as an Rq -constraint, to be able to fold it using ProtogaLattice. There are two ways to do
wpr
this. One is to use the Neo embedding (see [NS26, Theorems. 9–10]), which is exactly the additional
reduction of knowledge that we mentioned in Section 4, to translate field to ring constraints. If the
range proof of Neo is used, that reduction of knowledge comes at minimal extra cost as the sumcheck
can be batched with that of the range proof. The second way is to embed the extension field as a
CRT slot of Rq , which enables us to translate the sumcheck claim to the ring straightforwardly.
    The range proof from LatticeFold can be also used straightforwardly by ProtogaLattice, but at
a significantly higher overall cost.


D      Deferred Proofs

D.1      Gröbner Bases over Rings

We consider the theory of Gröbner bases over a commutative noetherian ring R from [Pau07]. Let
M be the polynomial ring RrX1 , . . . , Xk s, viewed as a free R-module with the basis of mono-
mials pX α qαPNk . We implicitly consider a total order ď ř over the monomials of M . Through-
out this document, for any non-zero polynomial P “ αPNk cα X α P M , we define its degree
degpP q “ maxtα{cα ‰ 0, and lcpP q “ cdegpP q (respectively lmpP q “ lcpP qX degpf q ) denotes the
leading coefficient (respectively the leading monomial) of P . Finally, for a finite subset F Ă M
(respectively F Ă R) we let xF yM (respectively xF yR ) denote the ideal of M generated by the
polynomials in F (respectively the ideal of R generated by F ). We omit the subscript and write
xF y when it is clear from context.
11
     Actually, a sumcheck over Rq can seen as N {τ parallel sumchecks over Fqτ [BC25a, Sec. 5], so one ring transcript
     proves N {τ “ 16 field claims at once. This closes the gap between the two techniques significantly, but Neo’s proof
     is still more efficient.


                                                            34
Proposition 2 (Existence of division in M , [Pau07], Proposition 2). Let F be a finite subset
of M zt0u and P P M . For all P P M , there exists a remainder R P M and a tuple of quotients
pQf qf PF P M F such that:
– P “ f PF Qf f ` R
        ř

– For all f P F , Qf “ 0 or degpQf q ` degpf q ď degpP q
– R “ 0 or lcpRq R xlcpf q{f P F such that degpRq P degpf q ` Nk yR .
   For an ideal I Ă M and α P Nk , we define the leading coefficient ideal lcpα, Iq “ xlcpf q{f P
I such that degpf q “ αy.
Definition 16 (Gröbner basis, [Pau07], Definition 4). A finite subset G Ă Izt0u is a Gröbner
basis of I if and only if for all α P Nk , the ideal lcpα, Iq is generated by tlcpGq{G P G, α P
degpGq ` Nk u.
Proposition 3 ([Pau07], Proposition 7). Let G be a Gröbner basis of I. Then P P I if and
only if a remainder of P after division by G is 0.
   The following proposition provides a generalization of Buchberger’s criterion, which also induces
an algorithm for computing Gröbner bases over rings.
Proposition 4 (Gröbner basis criterion, [Pau07] Proposition 9). Let G be a finite subset
of M zt0u, and let I :“ xGyM . For any non-empty subset E Ă G, let SE be a finite set of generators
of the R-module                     #          ˇ               +
                                               ˇÿ
                                                  ce lcpeq “ 0
                                               ˇ
                                      pce qePE ˇ
                                               ˇ
                                                 ePE
of syzygies of plcpeqq. Then, the following assertions are equivalent:
1. G is a Gröbner basis for I
2. For all E Ă G and for all pce qePE P SE a remainder of
                                           ÿ
                                              ce X m´degpeq e,
                                           ePE

   where m “ pmaxePE pdegpeqi qqiPrks after division by G is 0.
Reduced Gröbner bases. To ensure the uniqueness of the remainder, we rely on the notion
of reduced Gröbner bases. We assume the existence of a map Gen that takes an ideal J Ă R
and returns a system of canonical generators GenpJ q of J . Additionally, we fix a set of canonical
representatives for the coefficients: For any ideal J Ă R and any coset z ` J Ă R, the function R
selects a unique element Rpz, J q. We require Rp0, J q “ 0.
Definition 17 (Reduced Gröbner bases, [Pau07], Definition 17). Let I be an ideal of M .
A Gröbner basis G of I is a reduced Gröbner basis if and only iff:
– For all α P degpIq the map G ÞÑ lcpGq from tG P G{ degpGq “ α to tRpz, lcpă α, Iqq{z P
  Genplcpα, Iuzt0uy is bijective
– For all G :“ βPNk cβ X β P G and for all α P Nk with cα ‰ 0 and α ‰ degpGq, we have
                  ř
  cα “ Rpcα , lcpα, Iqq.
Proposition 5 (Uniqueness, extension of [Pau07] Proposition 19). Every ideal I in M
has a unique reduced Gröbner basis. In particular, up to the choice of the maps Gen and R, the
remainder in the division by the reduced Gröbner basis of I is unique.

                                                  35
D.2    Proof of Theorem 1
Proof. We split the proof in 4 claims.
CLAIM 1: The subset of invertible-or-zero points in the variety of I (i.e the set of common zeros
of all polynomials of I) is the set of k ` 1 points tPj , j P r0, ksu, where Pj ’s last j coefficients are
ones and the others are zeroes.
    Let us find the zeros of I with invertible-or-zero coefficients, first considering all k equations
Zjj “ Yj p1 ´ Yj q “ 0, with j P r0, k ´ 1s. Since we assume that all Yj ’s and 1 ´ Yj ’s are invertible
or zero, we have that @j P r0, k ´ 1s, Yj P t0, 1u.
Initialization: If k “ 1, the invertible-or-zero points in the variety are the two points Y0 “ 0 and
Y0 “ 1.
Induction: Assume that the variety of I is indeed the set of k ` 1 points tPj , j P r0, ksu, where Pj ’s
last j coefficients are ones and the others are zeros. We consider the next case for k ` 1 variables.
Let I 1 :“ xpZj`1,j qjPr0,ks y ` xpZjj qjPr0,ks y. Again, we have Yj P t0, 1u for all j P r0, ks. If Yk “ 0, it
follows from Yk´1 p1 ´ Yk q “ 0 that Yk´1 “ 0, thus by the induction hypothesis, the only one point
for which Yk “ 0 is p0, . . . , 0q. If Yk “ 1, then we have no additional constraint on Yk´1 , thus the
concatenation of any point Pj of I and 1 is a point of I 1 . In the end, the invertible or zero points
in the variety of I 1 is the set of k ` 2 points of the next induction step:
                                I 1 “ tp0, . . . , 0q and @j P r0, ks, pPj ||1qu.

CLAIM 2: The polynomial wk˚ pYq interpolates the wj ’s over the invertible or zero points of the
variety of I, i.e wk˚ pPj q “ wj .
    Recall that via Lemma 4,
                                                        k
                                                        ÿ
                                   wk˚ pYq “ Y0 w0 `        pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj .
                                                        j“1

Define polynomials cj such that wk˚ “ j“1 cj wj , i.e c0 “ Y0 , ck “ 1 ´ Yk´1 and for all j P
                                              řk
r0, k ´ 1scj “ Yj ´ Yj´1 . Since Y0 is zero across all the Pj ’s, except for the last Pk “ p1, . . . , 1q, we
have c0 pPj q “ 0 for all j P r0, k ´ 1s and c0 pPk q “ 1. Conversely, ck pPj q “ 1 for all j P rks and
ck pP0 q “ 0. For all other coefficients cj for j P rk ´ 1s, we have that cj pY0 , . . . , Yk´1 q “ Yj ´ Yj´1 .
Consecutive coordinates of Pj are equal, except when ` “ j, thus cj pP` q “ 0 for all ` except ` “ j
where cj pPj q “ 1. It follows that @i, j P r0, ksci pPj q “ 0 if i ‰ j and cj pPj q “ 1.
CLAIM 3: We consider the quotient M “ Rq rY0 , . . . , Yk´1 s, and prove that the map φ : M ÝÑ
Rk`1
 q   defined by
                                 φpP q ÞÑ pP pPj qqjPr0,ks
is an isomorphism of Rq -modules.
    We consider the basis B “ pY0 , . . . , Yk´1 , 1q of M{pIq. To justify that B is indeed a ba-
sis of M{pIq, consider any monomial    ś U “ Y0 ¨ ¨ ¨ Yk´1 , and notice that via the polynomials
                                                      a0      ak´1

Z00 , . . . , Zk´1,k´1 P I, we have U “ i st ai ‰0 Yi . Next, because Zj`1,j “ 0, we have Yj`1 “ Yj Yj`1 ,
thus by induction we obtain U “ Yimax with imax “ maxti, ai ‰ 0u or U “ 1 if ti, ai ‰ 0u is empty.
It follows that B is, indeed, a basis for M{I, thus the dimension of M{I is k ` 1.
    We now calculate the matrix of φ in basis B to basis B. We have bi pPj q “ 0 for all i ă j
and 1 otherwise. It follows that the matrix of φ is anti-triangular, with ones on the diagonal, thus
invertible, hence φ is an isomorphism.

                                                       36
CLAIM 4: Putting the pieces together, we show that
                  ˜                                   ¸ ˜                                          ¸
                                k
                                ÿ                                          k
                                                                           ÿ
              f       Y0 w0 `       pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj ´ Y0 f pw0 q `              pYj ´ Yj´1 qf pwj q     P I.
                                j“1                                       j“1


We recall that from claim 2, we have that the polynomial
                          ˜                                     ¸ ˜                                           ¸
                                          k
                                          ÿ                                         k
                                                                                    ÿ
           H̃pYq :“ f       Y0 w0 `           pYj ´ Yj´1 qwj ´ Y0 f pw0 q `             pYj ´ Yj´1 qf pwj q
                                         j“1                                        j“1


vanishes on the Pj ’s, thus φpH̃q “ 0. Since from claim 3, φ is an isomorphism, we have H̃ mod I “ 0
i.e H̃ P I and the result follows.                                                                [
                                                                                                  \


D.3   Proof of Proposition 1

Proof. To prove that G is a Gröbner basis for I, we use the extension of Buchberger’s criterion to
rings Proposition 4. Since all leading coefficients lcpGq are 1 (and thus units of Rq ), for any subset
E Ă G, the syzygy module of the leading coefficients of E is:
                                                         ÿ
                                                               ce “ 0.
                                                         ePE

This module is generated by vectors with one 1, one ´1 and zeros elsewhere. Hence the generalized
criterion from Proposition 4 reduces to the usual Buchberger S-polynomial criterion, i.e for all
Gi , Gj P G, with gi “ lmpgi q and gj “ lmpgj q, a remainder of

                                                      lcmpgi , gj q      lcmpgi , gj q
                                      SpGi , Gj q “                 Gi ´               Gj
                                                          gi                 gj

is 0.
    We now proceed to show that for all S-polynomials of pairs of elements of G have remainder 0
in the division by G. Consider two polynomials Zij , Zrs , with i, j, r, t P r0, ks, i ě j and r ě t.
    The first case is when ti, juXtr, su “ H. In this case, Zij and Zrs are coprime, thus SpZij , Zrs q P
xGy.
    When i “ r, we have

                                                      Yi Yj Ys       Yi Yj Ys
                                    SpZij , Zis q “            Zij ´          Zis
                                                       Yi Yj          Yi Ys
                                                 “ Ys pYi Yj ´ Yi q ´ Yj pYi Ys ´ Yi q
                                                 “ Yi Yj ´ Yi Ys
                                                 “ pYi Yj ´ Yi q ´ pYi Ys ´ Yi q
                                                 “ Zij ´ Zis ,

thus the remainder is 0.

                                                               37
   When i “ s, we have

                                                Yi Yj Yr       Yi Yj Yr
                              SpZij , Zri q “            Zij ´          Zri
                                                 Yi Yj          Yi Yr
                                          “ Yr pYi Yj ´ Yi q ´ Yj pYr Yi ´ Yr q
                                          “ Yr Yi ´ Yr Yj
                                          “ pYr Yi ´ Yr q ´ pYr Yj ´ Yr q
                                          “ Zri ´ Zrj ,

therefore the remainder is 0. Notice that since i ě j and r ě i, we have r ě j thus Zrj P G.
   When j “ s, we have

                                                Yi Yj Yr       Yi Yj Yr
                             SpZij , Zrj q “             Zij ´          Zrj
                                                 Yi Yj          Yr Yj
                                           “ Yr pYi Yj ´ Yi q ´ Yi pYr Yj ´ Yr q
                                           “ 0.

    We now prove that G is a reduced Gröbner basis. Since all the leading coefficients of the Zij ’s
are 1, we trivially chose Gen to map to t1u. Furthermore, since all the leading coefficients are 1,
we only need to define Rpz, x0yRq q, thus R “ 0. With both Gen and R being trivial, the conditions
for G to be a reduced Gröbner basis for I w.r.t Definition 17 become the usual conditions for a
Gröbner basis to be reduced over fields, that is,

1. For all G P G, lcpGq “ 1
2. For all G P G, no monomial of G is in xlmpG1 q|G1 P GztGuqy

We do have that the leading coefficient of Zij is 1 for all i ě j, so we now prove 2). Consider
Zij “ Yi Yj ´Yi P G. The leading monomials of G are of degree 2, therefore Yi R xlmpG1 q|G1 P GztGuqy.
Moreover, the only monomial of degree 2 that divides Yi Yj is itself. Since Zji is not in G, we have
that Yi Yj is also not in xlmpG1 q|G1 P GztGuqy, therefore 2) is satisfied, which completes the proof.
                                                                                                     [
                                                                                                     \


D.4   Correctness and Soundness of PGL-Fold: Proof of Theorem 2

Proof.    Correctness:˘ Consider     an honestly generated transcript of Figure 2. More` precisely,   let
  pt0 , x0 , β, eq, w0 P Ξf,n,γ,1 be an input accumulator instance-witness pair and let ptj , xj q, wj jPrks P
`        RP               acc                                                                  RP
                                                                                                      ˘
   fold
pΞf,n,B,1 qk be k input instance-witness pairs.
    We prove that the output pt˚ , xRP,˚ , β ˚ , e˚ q, w˚ is in the relation Ξf,n,γ 1 ,1 , with γ “ γ `
                                  `                       ˘                   acc                1

p2T k ` 1qB.
    By  definition of   ˚ , t˚ and the linearity of Ajtai commitments, we have that t˚ “
                                                                                                ř
                      w                                                                           j cj tj “
  j cj Awj “ Ap j cj wj q. We check the norm bound on w to ensure that t is indeed an Ajtai
ř                 ř                                            ˚                 ˚

commitment to w˚ :

                                                       38
                                      ›ÿk          ›
                              }w˚ } “ ›   Lj pyqwj ›
                                      ›            ›
                                             j“0
                                         ›                  k
                                                            ÿ                ›
                                       “ ›w0 ` py1 ´ 1qw1 `   pyj ´ yj´1 qwj ›
                                         ›                                   ›
                                                                         j“2

                                       ď γ ` pT ` 1qB ` 2T pk ´ 1qB
                                       ď γ ` p2T k ` 1qB “ γ 1 .
                                                              n
   To finish the proof, we need to prove that
                                                              ř
                                                                    powi pβ ˚ qfi pw˚ q “ e˚ .
                                                              i“1
   Let i P rns. Via Lemma 4, we can substitute w˚ with its closed form:
                             ¨       ˛          ¨                  ˛
                               źk            ÿk             źk
                       w˚ “ ˝     Xj ‚w0 `      ˝p1 ´ Xj q      X` ‚ wj
                                        j“1                   j“1                `“j`1


in the expression of fi pw˚ q. We have:

                                  »¨           ˛                 ¨                       ˛       fi
                                       k                     k                   k
                                                                                                              (8)
                                       ź                     ÿ                   ź
               fi pw˚ q “ fi –˝              Xj ‚w0 `            ˝p1 ´ Xj q            X` ‚wj fl
                                       j“1                   j“1               `“j`1
                              ˜                                                 ¸
                                                   k
                                                                                                              (9)
                                                   ÿ
                          “       Y0 fi pw0 q `          pYj ´ Yj´1 qfi pwj q        mod I
                                                   j“1
                                              k
                                                                                                             (10)
                                              ÿ                                     ÿ
                          “ Y0 fi pw0 q `           pYj ´ Yj´1 qfi pwj q `                 Qpiq
                                                                                            rs pYqZrs pYq,
                                              j“1                                1ďrďsďk

                                                                                                             (11)
                                              ÿ
                          “ fi pw0 q `                   Qpiq
                                                          rs pyqZrs pyq
                                          1ďrďsďk

where Equation (8) follows from Lemma 4, Equation (9) from Theorem 1, and Equation (10)
follows from the existence of the quotient in Proposition 1 (they are unique up to syzygies). Finally,
Equation (11) follows from the fact that each wj with j P rks is a witness of Ξf,n,B,1
                                                                                fold   , so fi pwj q “ 0
for every i P rns.
    Since the Qřrs and the Krs are equal up to syzygies, any other choice of a quotient gives the
same value of rďs Krs Zrs . Multiplying Equation (11) by powi pβ ˚ q and summing over i,
                 n
                 ÿ                                 n
                                                   ÿ                                ÿ
                       powi pβ ˚ qfi pw˚ q “             powi pβ ˚ qfi pw0 q `             Krs pyqZrs pyq
                 i“1                               i“1                           1ďrďsďk
                                                                   ÿ
                                              “ F pαq `                  Krs pyqZrs pyq “ e˚ .
                                                              1ďrďsďk


Soundness.

                                                                39
    We define an extractor E that given rewindable black-box access to a prover A returns either
a collision for the commitment scheme or tuples ptj , wj qjPrks P pΞf,n,B
                                                                    fold
                                                                          ext ,%
                                                                                 qk and ppt0 , β, eq, w0 q P
Ξf,n,Bext ,% .
  acc

Extraction : The transcripts provided by the prover are of the form
                         pptj qjPr0,ks , β, e, δ, pFi qiPrts , α, pKrs qr,s , y, t˚ , β ˚ , e˚ , w˚ q.
Our extractor E does the following:
1. Run A and obtain a first transcript
                           pptj qjPr0,ks , β, e, δ, pFi qiPrts , α, pKrs qr,s , y, t˚ , β ˚ , e˚ , w˚ q.
2. For all j P rks: Rewind the prover and send a new challenge yj1 “ p1, y1 , . . . , yj1 , . . . , yk q, where yj1
   is sampled independently from the same distribution C as yj . Let wj˚ be the j-th accumulator
   and t˚j be the accumulator’s commitment.
3. For all j P rks, construct relaxed openings p∆j , zj q to the commitment ptj ´tj`1 q, with tk`1 :“ 0,
   where zj :“ yj ´ yj1 and ∆j :“ zj´1 pw˚ ´ wj˚ q.
4. Define w s k :“ ∆k and sk :“ zk .
5. Define recursively for all j “ k ´ 1 down to 1: w          s j`1 ` ∆j and sj :“ ki“j zi .
                                                                                         ś
                                                      s j :“ w
6. Compute the accumulator opening: w     s 0 :“ w˚ ´ kj“1 Lj pyqw   s j with slack s0 :“ s1 .
                                                         ř

7. The extractor outputs either the collision, or the witnesses pw   s j , sj qjPr0,ks .

   We prove step by step that the extracted pw
                                             s j qjPr0,ks are in the relation pΞf,n,B
                                                                                fold
                                                                                      ext ,%
                                                                                             qk ˆ Ξf,n,B
                                                                                                   acc
                                                                                                         ext ,%
                                                                                                                ,
where Bext :“ p2T q pk ` k ` 1qγ and % “ p2T q .
                   k  2         1               k

For j P rks, p∆j , zj q are relaxed openings for the commitments tj ´ tj`1 .
We show that p∆j , zj qjPrks defined in step 3) are relaxed openings to the commitments ptj ´ tj`1 q.
More precisely, they satisfy (i) A∆j “ tj ´ tj`1 , (ii) }zj ∆j } ď 2γ 1 and (iii) }zj }op ď 2T .
   The output accumulators pwj˚ qjPrks of all transcripts satisfy Awj˚ “ t˚j . By construction of t˚ ,
we have
                                           k
                                           ÿ
                                     ˚
                                   t “           Lj pyqtj
                                           j“0
                                                  k
                                                  ÿ
                                         “ t0 `       pyj ´ yj´1 qtj
                                                  j“1
                                                  k
                                                  ÿ                k´1
                                                                   ÿ
                                         “ t0 `         yj t j ´         yj tj`1
                                                  j“1              j“0
                                                                    k´1
                                                                    ÿ
                                         “ t0 ´ t1 ` yk tk `              yj ptj ´ tj`1 q,
                                                                    j“1

therefore for all j P rks we have t˚ ´ t˚j “ pyj ´ yj1 qptj ´ tj`1 q “ zj ptj ´ tj`1 q. It follows that
A∆j “ Apw˚ ´ wj˚ q “ ptj ´ tj`1 q. To complete this proof, we bound the norm of zj ∆j , which is
exactly w˚ ´ wj˚ , by the output accumulator bound γ 1 as follows
                                            }zj ∆j } “ }w˚ ´ wj˚ } ď 2γ 1 .


                                                              40
For j P rks, pw
              s j , sj q are relaxed openings. We show that the extracted pw    s j , sj qjPr0,ks are relaxed
openings w.r.t the commitments ptj qjPrks , i.e (i) Aw
                                                     s j “ tj (ii) }sj w
                                                                       s j } ď Bext (iii) }sj }op ď %.
   For j “ k, the results hold because }sk }op “ }yk ´ yk1 }op ď 2T ď %,

                                                Aw
                                                 s k “ A∆k
                                                         “ tk ,

and

                                             }sk w
                                                 s k } “ }sk ∆k }
                                                         ď 2γ 1
                                                         ă Bext .

For j P r1, k ´ 1s, work by induction from k down to j. For }sj }, we have

                                         }sj }op “ }zj ¨ ¨ ¨ zk }op
                                                 ď }zj }op ¨ ¨ ¨ }zk }op
                                                 ď p2T qk´j`1
                                                 ď %.

For commitments, we have


                                         Aw
                                          s j “ Apw
                                                  s j`1 ` ∆j q
                                                “ tj`1 ` tj ´ tj`1
                                                “ tj .

For the slack factor, we have as above

                                                          k
                                                          ź
                                            }sj }op “ }         zi }op
                                                          i“j

                                                    ď p2T qk´j`1
                                                    ď %.

   For the norm bound, we have

                               }sj w
                                   s j } “ }zj sj`1 w
                                                    s j`1 ` zj sj`1 ∆j }
                                                  s j`1 } ` p2T qk´j }zj ∆j },
                                       ď 2T }sj`1 w

using sj “ zj sj`1 and }sj`1 }op ď p2T qk´j . Thus,

                                        s j } ď pk ´ j ` 1qp2T qk´j p2γ 1 q
                                    }sj w
                                            ă Bext .


                                                         41
The extracted accumulator w   s 0 is a relaxed opening to t0 . We now prove that ws 0 satisfies (i), (ii)
and (iii). For the slack factor, we have s0 “ s1 , thus }s0 }op ď %. For the commitment, we have
                                                                      k
                                                                      ÿ
                                          s 0 “ Apw˚ ´
                                         Aw                                  Lj pyqw
                                                                                   s jq
                                                                      j“1
                                                               k
                                                               ÿ
                                                    “ t˚ ´            Lj pyqs
                                                                            tj
                                                               j“1

                                                    “ t0 .
For the norm bound, we have
                                                             k
                                                             ÿ
                              s 0 } “ }s0 w˚ ´ s0
                          }s0 w                                    Lj pyqw
                                                                         s j q}
                                                             j“1
                                                        k
                                                ˚
                                                        ÿ s0
                                     “ }s0 w ´                     ¨ Lj pyq ¨ sj w
                                                                                 s j q}
                                                        j“1
                                                              sj
                                                         k
                                                         ÿ
                                     ď p2T qk γ 1 `            p2T qj´1 ¨ p2T q ¨ }sj w
                                                                                      s j}
                                                         j“1
                                                         k
                                                         ÿ
                                     ď p2T qk γ 1 `            p2T qj p2T qk´j 2pk ´ j ` 1qγ 1
                                                         j“1
                                               k 1
                                     ď p2T q γ p1 ` kpk ` 1qq
                                     ď p2T qk γ 1 pk 2 ` k ` 1q “ Bext .
Under the hardness of MSIS8,q
                          κ,m,2%Bext , the pw
                                            s j qjPr0,ks are unique.
The extracted witnesses satisfy the constraints. In the final part of the proof, we show that with
                            n                                                              n
                                                                 and
                            ÿ                                                              ÿ
                Φ˚ pXq “          powi pβ ˚ qfi pXq                           ΦpXq “             powi pβqfi pXq,
                            i“1                                                            i“1

the following holds
                        ωj qjPrks
                       pĎ            satisfies Φ˚ pĎ
                                                   ωj q “ 0                  and Φ˚ pĎ
                                                                                     ω0 q “ F pαq.
On
ř the one hand, for any challenge vector submitted by the extractor, substituting w with
                                                                                   ˚

               ωj yields:
 jPr0,ks Lj pyqĎ

                                          ´ ÿ                         ¯
                      Φ˚ pω ˚ pyqq “ Φ˚                 Lj pyqĎ
                                                              ωj
                                              jPr0,ks
                                        k
                                        ÿ                              ÿ
                                    “         Lj pyqΦ˚ pĎ
                                                        ωj q `               Qrs pyqZrs pyq
                                        j“0                            r,s
                                                        k
                                                        ÿ                           ÿ
                                    “ Φ˚ pĎ
                                          ω0 q `              Lj pyqΦ˚ pĎ
                                                                        ωj q `             Qrs pyqZrs pyq.
                                                        j“1                          r,s



                                                                 42
On the other hand, via the verification equation, we have:

                              Φ˚ pw˚ pyqq “ e˚
                                            ÿ
                                          “    Krs pyqZrs pyq ` F pαq.
                                                    r,s

Plugging both together, we have that the following polynomial:
                                           k
                                           ÿ                          ÿ
                      ˚
           Ψ pYq :“ pΦ pĎ
                        ω0 q ´ F pαqq `          Lj pYqΦ˚ pĎ
                                                           ωj q `           pQrs pYq ´ Krs pYqq Zrs pYq
                                           j“1                        r,s

vanishes at all accepting transcripts. Under the Schwartz-Zippel Lemma over rings Lemma 1, the
probability that Ψ is non-zero and vanishes for Y Ð C k is bounded by
                                                               degpΨ q   dk
                                PYÐC k pΨ pYq “ 0q ď                   ď     .
                                                                 |C|     |C|

   It follows that with probability at least 1 ´ |C|
                                                 dk
                                                     , we have Ψ “ 0 as a polynomial. Under the
uniqueness of the decomposition in the reduced Gröbner basis Propositions 1 and 5, it follows that


                                     @j P rks,      Φ˚ pĎ
                                                        ωj q “ 0                                          (12)
                                                      ˚
                                                    Φ pĎ
                                                       ω0 q “ F pαq                                       (13)
                                             ÿ                ÿ
                                                    Krs Zrs “    Qrs Zrs .
                                              r,s               r,s

   Both Equations (12) and (13) are polynomials in α, δ of total degree 2 log n that vanish on the
random points pα, βq drawn from C 2 , where we recall C is a strong sampling set. It follows that with
probability at least 2 log
                       |C| , these polynomials are 0, thus by identifying each coefficient, we have:
                           n


                                                      ωj q “ 0 and
                                         @j P rks, f pĎ
                                          ÿn
                                              powi pβqfi pĎω0 q “ e,
                                           i“1

which completes the proof.

D.5   Correctness and Soundness of PGL-Boot: Proof of Theorem 3
                                                  acc
Proof. Correctness. Let pt, xRP , β, eq, w P Ξf,n,γ   1 ,1 . Since b
                                                                    k1 ě γ 1 , the w ’s are the base b
                          `                 ˘
                                                                                    j
decomposition of w, i.e j“0 b wj “ w and }wi }8 ď b ´ 1. By the linearity of the commitment
                        řk1 ´1 j

scheme, the first check kj“0  b tj passes. The second check is a direct consequence of Theorem 1
                       ř 1 ´1 j

evaluated at Y “ D. since Lj pDq “ bj we have j Lj pDqωj “ ω, hence HpDq “ e.
                                               ř
   The final witness w˚ is obtained by the same linear combination as in PGL-Fold (Figure 2),
with norm bounded by
                               1 ´1
                              kÿ
              ˚
                                                                      `                   ˘
           }w } ď pb ´ 1q `           }yj ´ yj´1 }op pb ´ 1q ď            2T pk 1 ´ 1q ` 1 pb ´ 1q ď γ.
                               j“1


                                                          43
   Soundness. Our extractor runs the extractor from the knowledge soundness of Theorem 2. We
obtain relaxed witnesses pw                                         qk . Instantiating the bounds of Theorem 2
                                                       acc            1
                             s j , sj qjPr0,k1 ´1s P pΞf,n,B ext ,%
with k :“ k 1 ´ 1 free challenges and output accumulator bounded by γ gives

                                                                       and
                                      1                                                  1
                      Bext “ p2T qk ´1 pk 1 ´ 1q2 ` k 1 γ                      % “ p2T qk ´1 .
                                          `                ˘


Finally, under the hardness of MSIS8,q
                                   κ,m,2%Bext , our extractor outputs unique pw
                                                                                                                 řk1 ´1 j
                                                                              s :“                                j“0 b w s j , s0 q.
   Following the extraction of Theorem 2, for all j P rk ´ 1s we have
                                                          1

                                                                         1
                                                       }sj }op ď p2T qk ´j
                                                                         1
                                                          s j } ď p2T qk ´j 2γ 1
                                                      }sj w
                                                           Aw
                                                            s j “ tj .

For j “ 0, we have
                                                                         1
                                                       }s0 }op ď p2T qk ´1
                                                                         1
                                                          s j } ď p2T qk ´1 2γ 1
                                                      }s0 w
                                                           Aw
                                                            s 0 “ t0 .

   It follows that
                                              1 ´1
                                             kÿ
                        }s0 w}
                            s “ }s0                   bj´1 w
                                                           s j}
                                             j“0
                                         k1 ´1
                                             ÿ        s0
                                    “}           bj      sj w
                                                            s j}
                                         j“0
                                                      sj
                                          1 ´1
                                         kÿ
                                                                    1                         1
                                    ď}           bj p2T qj p2T qk ´j p2γ 1 q} ` }p2T qk ´1 p2γ 1 q}
                                         j“1
                                                       1
                                    ď k γp2T qk ´1 p2γ 1 q
                                         1

                                    ď γext .

   For the commitment of w,
                         s we have
                                             1 ´1
                                           ´kÿ          ¯
                                      Aw
                                       s “A       bj w
                                                     sj
                                                            j“0
                                                     k1 ´1
                                                      ÿ
                                                                          1 ´1
                                                                         kÿ
                                                             j
                                                 “           b Aw
                                                                sj “             bj tj “ t,
                                                      j“0                j“0

where the last equality is the verifier’s
                                   ř first check.
   We now argue that ΦpXq :“ ni“1 powi pβqfi pXq is such that ΦpĎ ωj q “ ej . Similarly as in the
proof of Theorem 2, combining the verification equation and Theorem 1, we create a polynomial
                                                                                  1 ´1
                                                                                 kÿ
                              ÿ
                   Ψ pYq :“         pKrs pYq ´ Qrs pYqq Zrs pYq `                        Lj pYqpΦpωj q ´ ej q.
                              r,s                                                j“0


                                                                   44
Since the w
          s j ’s are unique, the above identity holds for any accepting transcript at the evaluation
point y. We apply the Schwartz-Zippel over rings Lemma 1 and deduce that if Ψ were non-zero,
then
                                                           dpk 1 ´ 1q
                                  PYÐC k1 ´1 pΨ pYq “ 0q ď            ,
                                                              |C|
the verifier sampling y1 , . . . , yk1 ´1 . Hence with probability at least 1 ´ dpk|C|´1q we have Ψ “ 0 as a
                                                                                 1


polynomial, and by the uniqueness of the decomposition in a reduced Gröbner basis Proposition 5,
we have
     ř that pKrs qrs “ pQrs qrs up to syzygies and for all j P r0, k ´ 1s, Φpwj q “ ej . In particular
                                                                          1            s
P :“ r,s Krs Zrs is the quotient part of H, i.e.
                                                1 ´1
                                               kÿ
                                     HpYq “            Lj pYq ej ` P pYq,
                                               j“0


which
   ř is the decomposition the prover computes in Figure 3. We deduce from the check
                                                                                              řk1 ´1 j ?
                                                                                               j“0 b ej “
e ` rs Zrs pDqKrs pDq that
                                        1 ´1
                                       kÿ
                                   e“        Lj pDqej ` P pDq.
                                            j“0

It follows that Φps
                  ω q “ e. Via Theorem 1, }s0 }op ď % and }s0 w}
                                                              s ď γext , which completes the proof.




                                                        45
